{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl480 \slmult1 \sa0 Affolter, J. (2009). Les Douattes (Musi\uc0\u232{}ges \uc0\u8211{} Haute-Savoie): Les s\uc0\u233{}ries magdal\uc0\u233{}niennes et aziliennes des fouilles Jayet et Pion (1999-2002). In {\i{}La fin du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique sup\uc0\u233{}rieur dans les alpes du nord, le jura m\uc0\u233{}ridional et les r\uc0\u233{}gions limitrophes. Approches culturelles et environnementales} (M\uc0\u233{}moire de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise, pp. 161\uc0\u8211{}172).\
Agogu\uc0\u233{}, O., & Dalmeri, G. (2005). Lamelles \uc0\u224{} dos tronqu\uc0\u233{}es et pointes \uc0\u224{} dos: Deux mod\uc0\u232{}les d\uc0\u8217{}armatures dans l\uc0\u8217{}Epigravettien r\uc0\u233{}cent du Riparo Dalmeri (Grigno, Trentin, Italie). {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}41}, 231\uc0\u8211{}243.\
Aguirre, M. (2008). Caracterizaci\uc0\u243{}n tecnol\uc0\u243{}gica de la industria de Portugain. In I. Barandiar\uc0\u225{}n Maestu & A. Cava Almuzara (Eds.), {\i{}Cazadores y tallistas en el abrigo de Portugain. Una ocupaci\uc0\u243{}n de Urbasa durante el Tardiglaciar} (pp. 121\uc0\u8211{}183). Jos\uc0\u233{} Miguel de Barandiar\uc0\u225{}n Fundazioa.\
Aimar, A., Alciati, G., Broglio, A., Castelletti, L., Cattani, L., D\uc0\u8217{}Amico, C., Giacobini, G., Maspero, A., & Peresani, M. (1994). Les Abris Villabruna dans la Vall\uc0\u232{}e du Cismon. {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}21}(1), Article 1.\
Alday Ruiz, A., & Cava Almuzara, A. (2009). El Mesol\uc0\u237{}tico Geom\uc0\u233{}trico en Vasconia. {\i{}El Mesol\uc0\u237{}tico Geom\uc0\u233{}trico En La Pen\uc0\u237{}nsula Ib\uc0\u233{}rica: Monograf\uc0\u237{}as Arqueol\uc0\u243{}gicas}, {\i{}44}, 93\uc0\u8211{}129.\
Altuna, J., & Merino, J. M. (1984). {\i{}El yacimiento prehist\uc0\u243{}rico de la cueva de Ekain (Deba, Gipuzkoa)}. Colecci\uc0\u243{}n Sociedad de Estudios Vascos con la colaboraci\uc0\u243{}n de Sociedad de Ciencias Aranzadi.\
Andersen, S. H. (1972). Bro, en senglacial boplads p\uc0\u229{} Fyn. {\i{}Kuml}, {\i{}22}, Article 22. https://doi.org/10.7146/kuml.v22i22.105823\
Angelucci, D. E., Alessio, M., Bartolomei, G., Cassoli, P. F., Improta, S., Maspero, A., & Tagliacozzo, A. (1998). The Frea IV rockshelter (Selva V al Gardena, BZ). {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}34}, 99\uc0\u8211{}109.\
Antl-Weiser, W. (1986). {\i{}Das Fundmaterial von Horn-Galgenberg und seine Stellung am \uc0\u220{}bergang vom Pal\uc0\u228{}olithikum zum Mesolithikum}. na.\
Armend\uc0\u225{}riz Guti\uc0\u233{}rrez, A. (1997). Anton Koba. Cazadores azilienses en la sierra de Aizkorri (Gipuzkoa). In R. Balbin Behrmann & P. Bueno Ram\uc0\u237{}rez (Eds.), {\i{}II Congreso de Arqueolog\uc0\u237{}a Peninsular} (Vol. 1, pp. 297\uc0\u8211{}310).\
Armstrong, A. L. (1925). Excavations at Mother Grundy\uc0\u8217{}s Parlour, Creswell Crags, Derbyshire, 1924. {\i{}The Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland}, {\i{}55}, 146\uc0\u8211{}175. https://doi.org/10.2307/2843698\
Arts, N., & Deeben, J. (1976). {\i{}Een Federmesser nederzetting langs de kapeldijk te Westelbeers, Provincie Noord-Brabant}. Stitching Brabants Heem.\
Aubry, T. (2009). {\i{}200 [duzentos] s\uc0\u233{}culos de hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Vale do C\uc0\u244{}a: Incurs\uc0\u245{}es na vida quotidiana dos ca\uc0\u231{}adores-artistas do Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico}. IGESPAR, Instituto de Gest\uc0\u227{}o do Patrim\uc0\u243{}nio Arquitect\uc0\u243{}nico e Arqueol\uc0\u243{}gico.\
Aubry, T., Gameiro, C., Santos, A., & Lu\uc0\u237{}s, L. (2017). Existe azilense em Portugal? Novos dados sobre o tardiglaciar e o pre\uc0\u8209{}boreal no Vale do Coa. In {\i{}Arqueolog\uc0\u237{}a em Portugal/2017- Estado da Quest\uc0\u227{}o} (pp. 403\uc0\u8211{}418). Associa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o dos Arque\uc0\u243{}logos Portugueses.\
Aura Tortosa, E., Jord\uc0\u225{} Pardo, J., Borja, P., Puchol, O., Badal, E., P\uc0\u233{}rez-Ripoll, M., P\uc0\u233{}rez Jord\uc0\u225{}, G., Benito, J. L., & Morales P\uc0\u233{}rez, J. (2013). Una perspectiva mediterr\uc0\u225{}nea sobre el proceso de neolitizaci\uc0\u243{}n. Los datos de la cueva de Nerja. {\i{}Menga. Revista de Prehistoria de Andaluc\uc0\u237{}a}, {\i{}4}, 53\uc0\u8211{}78.\
Bagniewski, Z. (1997). O schy\uc0\u322{}kowopaleolitycznych kulturach kompleksu z li\uc0\u347{}ciakami na Pomorzu. {\i{}Studia Archeologiczne}, {\i{}29}, 25\uc0\u8211{}92.\
Bagolini, B., & Dalmeri, G. (1987). I siti mesolitici di Colbricon  (Trentino).  Analisi spaziale e fruizione del territorio. {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}23}, 7\uc0\u8211{}188.\
Ballin, T. B. (2017). Beyond Howburn \uc0\u8211{} the investigation of the Scottish Late Upper Palaeolithic period. {\i{}British Archaeology}, {\i{}2017 (Nov-Dec)}, 26\uc0\u8211{}31.\
Ballin, T. B. (2018). {\i{}Reindeer hunters at Howburn Farm, South Lanarkshire: A Late Hamburgian settlement in southern Scotland \uc0\u8211{} its lithic artefacts and natural environment}. Archaeopress Publishing Ltd.\
Ballin, T. B., & Saville, A. (2003). An ahrensburgian-type tanged point from shieldag, wester ross, scotland, and its implications. {\i{}Oxford Journal of Archaeology}, {\i{}22}(2), Article 2.\
Ballin, T. B., Saville, A., Tipping, R., & Ward, T. (2010). An Upper Palaeolithic Flint and Chert  Assemblage from Howburn Farm, South Lanarkshire, Scotland: First Results. {\i{}Oxford Journal of Archaeology}, {\i{}29}(4), Article 4.\
Barandiar\uc0\u225{}n, I., & Cava, A. (2008). {\i{}Cazadores y tallistas en el abrigo de Portugain: Una ocupaci\uc0\u243{}n de Urbasa durante el Tardiglaciar}. Fundaci\uc0\u243{}n Jos\uc0\u233{} Miguel de Barandiar\uc0\u225{}n.\
Barri\uc0\u232{}re, Cl., Daniel, R., Delporte, H., de Fonton, M. E., Parent, R., Roche, J., & Rozoy, J.-G. (1972). Epipal\uc0\u233{}olithique\uc0\u8212{}M\uc0\u233{}solithique. Les armatures non g\uc0\u233{}om\uc0\u233{}triques\uc0\u8212{}1. {\i{}Bulletin de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}69}(1), Article 1. JSTOR.\
Bartolomei, G., Broglio, A., Cattani, L., Cremaschi, M., Guerreschi, A., Leonardi, P., & Peretto, C. (1984). Paleolitico e Mesolitico. In {\i{}Il Veneto nell\uc0\u8217{}antichit\uc0\u224{}.} (pp. 167\uc0\u8211{}319).\
Barton, N. (1991). Technological innovation and continuity at the end of the Pleistocene in Britain. {\i{}CBA Research Report}, {\i{}77}, Article 77.\
Barton, R. N. E. (1986). {\i{}A study of selected British and European flint assemblages of Late Devensian and Early Flandrian Age} [University of Oxford]. https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:870615a7-3f6c-4733-893c-c618dd120d2c\
Barton, R. N. E. (1992). {\i{}Hengistbury Head, Dorset, Volume 2: The Late Upper Palaeolithic and Early Mesolithic Sites}. Oxford University School of Archaeology.\
Barton, R. N. E. (1993). Excavations in the Wye Valley. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}20}(2), Article 2.\
Barton, R. N. E. (1994). Second interim report on the survey and excavations in the Wye Valley. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}20}(1), Article 1.\
Barton, R. N. E. (1996). Fourth interim report on the survey and excavations in the Wye Valley 1996. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}20}(3), Article 3.\
Barton, R. N. E., Ford, S., Collcutt, S., Crowther, J., MacPhail, R., Rhodes, E., & van Gijn, A. (2009). A Final Upper Palaeolithic site at Nea Farm , Somerley , Hampshire (England) and some reflections on the occupation of Britain in the Late Glacial Interstadial. {\i{}Quart\uc0\u228{}r}, {\i{}56}, 1\uc0\u8211{}29.\
Barton, R. N. E., & Froom, F. R. (1986). The long blade assemblage from Avington VI, Berkshire. {\i{}The Palaeolithic of Britain and Its Nearest Neighbours: Recent Trends. University of Sheffield}, {\i{}1986}, 80\uc0\u8211{}84.\
Barton, R. N. E., Jacobi, R. M., Stapert, D., & Street, M. (2003). The Late-glacial reoccupation of the British Isles and the Creswellian. {\i{}Journal of Quaternary Science}, {\i{}18}(7), Article 7.\
Barton, R. N. E., & Roberts, A. (2020). The Transition from the Younger Dryas to the Pre-Boreal in Southern Britain: Some New Perspectives on the Spatial Patterning and Chronology of Long Blade Sites. In {\i{}Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire de l\uc0\u8217{}Europe du Nord-Ouest: Mobilit\uc0\u233{}s, climats et identit\uc0\u233{}s culturelles} (pp. 281\uc0\u8211{}389). Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise.\
Barton, R. N. E., & Roberts, A. J. (1996). Reviewing the British Late Upper Palaeolithic: New Evidence for Chronological Patterning in the Lateglacial Record. {\i{}Oxford Journal of Archaeology}, {\i{}15}(3), Article 3.\
Bassetti, M., Cusinato, A., Dalmeri, G., Kompatscher, K., & Hrozny Kompatscher, M. (1995). Riparo Dalmeri (Trento). L\uc0\u8217{}industria litica negli spazi d\uc0\u8217{}abitato epigravettiani. {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}31}, 23\uc0\u8211{}35.\
Bassetti, M., Dalmeri, G., Kompatscher, K., Hrozny Kompatscher, N., & Lanzinger, M. (1998). Research on the Epigravettian site of Riparo Dalmeri on the Sette Comuni plateau (Trento ). {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}34}, 139\uc0\u8211{}154.\
B\uc0\u233{}milli, C., Biard, M., Chauss\uc0\u233{}, C., & Donnart, K. (2014). Une partie de chasse \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}Aurochs il y a 10 000 ans: Le Locus 28704 d\uc0\u8217{}Alizay (Eure, France). In {\i{}Actes des congr\uc0\u232{}s nationaux des soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s historiques et scientifiques} (Vol. 138, pp. 170\uc0\u8211{}187). Ed. du CTHS. https://www.persee.fr/doc/acths_1764-7355_2014_act_138_2_2728\
B\uc0\u233{}res, S., Cserp\uc0\u225{}k, F., Moskal-del Hoyo, M., Repiszky, T., S\uc0\u225{}zelov\uc0\u225{}, S., Wilczy\uc0\u324{}ski, J., & Lengyel, G. (2021). Z\uc0\u246{}ld cave and the late epigravettian in eastern central Europe. {\i{}Quaternary International}, {\i{}587}, 158\uc0\u8211{}171.\
Berg-Hansen, I. M. (2017). {\i{}Den sosiale teknologien: Teknologi og tradisjon i Nord-Europa ved slutten av istida, 10 900\uc0\u8211{}8500 f. Kr}. Unpublished PhD dissertation, University of Oslo.\
Berg-Hansen, I. M. (2019). Alt Duvenstedt LA121 revisited\uc0\u8212{}Blade technology in Ahrensburgian culture. In {\i{}The Final Palaeolithic of Northern Eurasia. Proceedings of the Amersfoort, Schleswig and Burgos UISPP Commission Meetings} (pp. 169\uc0\u8211{}191). Ludwig.\
Biard, M., Bemilli, C., Chauss\uc0\u233{}, C., & Donnart, K. (2018). Une occupation temporaire au Belloisien\uc0\u8239{}? Le Cas du locus 28704 du site d\uc0\u8217{}Alizay (Eure, France). {\i{}PALEO\uc0\u8239{}: Revue d\uc0\u8217{}Arch\uc0\u233{}ologie Pr\uc0\u233{}historique}, {\i{}Num\uc0\u233{}ro sp\uc0\u233{}cial}, Article Num\uc0\u233{}ro sp\uc0\u233{}cial.\
Biard, M., & Hinguant, S. (2014). Des grandes lames aux microlithes: Unit\uc0\u233{} technologique d\uc0\u8217{}un assemblage lithique du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique sup\uc0\u233{}rieur final \uc0\u224{} Calleville (Eure). {\i{}Transitions, Ruptures et Continuit\uc0\u233{} Durant La Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire, Actes Du XXVII e}, 605\uc0\u8211{}621.\
Biard, M., Hinguant, S., Beurion, C., Deloze, V., Forr\uc0\u233{}, P., & Sellami, F. (2011). {\i{}Le bivouac pr\uc0\u233{}historique du Buhot, \uc0\u224{} Calleville (Eure): Caract\uc0\u233{}risation d\uc0\u8217{}un assemblage lithique lamino-lamellaire de la fin du pal\uc0\u233{}olithique sup\uc0\u233{}rieur} (p. 168 p.). CNRS \uc0\u201{}ditions. https://hal-inrap.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-02046097\
Bicho, N. (1999). A Ocupa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o Epipaleol\uc0\u237{}tica do Abrigo Grande das Bocas, Rio Maior. {\i{}O Arque\uc0\u243{}logo Portugu\uc0\u234{}s}, {\i{}13-15 (1995-1997)}, 53\uc0\u8211{}86.\
Bobak, D., \uc0\u321{}anczont, M., Nowak, A., Po\uc0\u322{}towicz-Bobak, M., & Tokarczyk, S. (2010). Wierzawice, st. 31\uc0\u8211{}nowy \uc0\u347{}lad osadnictwa magdale\uc0\u324{}skiego w Polsce po\uc0\u322{}udniowo-wschodniej. {\i{}Materia\uc0\u322{}y i Sprawozdania Rzeszowskiego O\uc0\u347{}rodka Archeologicznego}, {\i{}31}, 63\uc0\u8211{}78.\
Bodu, P. (1998). {\i{}Le \uc0\u8220{}Closeau\uc0\u8221{}. Deux ann\uc0\u233{}es de fouille sur un gisement azilien et belloisien en bord de Seine}. SRA d\uc0\u8217{}Ile-de-France.\
Bodu, P. (2000). Que sont devenus les Magdal\uc0\u233{}niens du Bassin parisien\uc0\u8239{}? Quelques \uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}ments de r\uc0\u233{}ponse sur le gisement azilien du Closeau (Rueil-Malmaison, France). {\i{}M\uc0\u233{}moires Du Mus\uc0\u233{}e de Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire d\uc0\u8217{}Ile-de-France}, {\i{}7}, 315\uc0\u8211{}339. http://pascal-francis.inist.fr/vibad/index.php?action=getRecordDetail&idt=1558130\
Bodu, P., Debout, G., & Bignon, O. (2006). Variabilit\uc0\u233{} des habitudes tardiglaciaires dans le Bassin parisien: L\uc0\u8217{}organisation spatiale et sociale de l\uc0\u8217{}Azilien ancien du Closeau. {\i{}Bulletin de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}115}(3), Article 3. https://doi.org/10.3406/bspf.2018.14921\
Bodu, P., & Mevel, L. (2008). Enqu\uc0\u234{}te autour des lames tranchantes de l\uc0\u8217{}Azilien ancien. Le cas du niveau inf\uc0\u233{}rieur du Closeau (Rueil-Malmaison, Hauts-de-Seine, France). {\i{}L\uc0\u8217{}Anthropologie}, {\i{}112}(4\uc0\u8211{}5), Article 4\uc0\u8211{}5. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.anthro.2008.06.004\
Breest, K., & Gerken, K. (2008). Kulturelle Einfl\uc0\u252{}sse und Beziehungen im Sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum Niedersachsens \uc0\u8211{} Ein Diskussionsbeitrag. {\i{}Die Kunde N.F.}, {\i{}59}, 1\uc0\u8211{}38.\
Brezillon, M. (1971). Les Tarter\uc0\u234{}ts II, site pal\uc0\u233{}olithique de plein air \uc0\u224{} Corbeil-Essonnes (Essonne). {\i{}Gallia Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}14}(1), Article 1.\
Broglio, A., & Kozlowski, S. K. (1984). Tipologia ed evoluzione delle industrie mesolitiche di Romagnano III. {\i{}Prehistoria Alpina}, {\i{}19}, 93\uc0\u8211{}148.\
Buck Pedersen, K. (2009). {\i{}Stederne og Menneskene. Istidsj\uc0\u230{}gere omkring Knudshoved Odde} (Vol. 3). Narayana Press.\
Buck Pedersen, K., & Brinch Petersen, E. (2006). Variability in the Late Palaeolithic: The example of Stoksbjerg Bro, Zealand, Denmark. In K. M\uc0\u248{}ller Hansen & K. Buck Pedersen (Eds.), {\i{}Across the Western Baltic Proceedings of the Archaeological Conference \uc0\u8220{}The Prehistory and Early Medieval Period in the Western Baltic\uc0\u8221{} in Vordingborg, South Zealand, Denmark, March 27th \uc0\u8211{} 29th 2003} (pp. 75\uc0\u8211{}92). Sydsj\uc0\u230{}llands Museums Publikationer.\
Burdukiewicz, J. M. (1980). Wyniki bada\uc0\u324{} stanowiska kultury hamburskiej w Olbrachcicach, gm. Wschowa, woj. Leszno. {\i{}Sprawozdania Archeologiczne}, {\i{}32}, 9\uc0\u8211{}27.\
Cacho, C., Jord\uc0\u225{} Pardo, F. J., de la Torre, I., & Yravedra, J. (2001). El Tossal de la Roca (Alicante). Nuevos datos sobre el Magdaleniense mediterr\uc0\u225{}neo de la Pen\uc0\u237{}nsula Ib\uc0\u233{}rica. {\i{}Trabajos de Prehistoria}, {\i{}1}, 71\uc0\u8211{}93.\
Cacho, C., L\uc0\u243{}pez, J. A., P\uc0\u233{}rez-Ripoll, M., Martinez Valle, R., Uzquiano, P., Arnanz, A., S\uc0\u225{}nchez Marco, A., Sevilla, P., Morales, A., Rosell\uc0\u243{}, E., Garralda, M. D., & Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Carrilo, M. (1995). El Tossal de la Roca (Vall d \uc0\u8216{}Alcal\uc0\u224{}, Alicante). Reconstrucci\uc0\u243{}n paleoambiental y cultural de la transici\uc0\u243{}n del Tardiglaciar al Holoceno inicial. {\i{}Recerques Del Museu d\uc0\u8217{}Alcoi}, {\i{}4}, 11\uc0\u8211{}101.\
Cacho Quesada, C., & Martos Romero, J. A. (2004). Estudio tecnol\uc0\u243{}gico de los niveles magdalenienses del Tossal de la Roca (Vall d\uc0\u8217{}Alcal\uc0\u225{}, Alicante). {\i{}Zona Arqueol\uc0\u243{}gica}, {\i{}4}, 88\uc0\u8211{}101.\
Cacho Quesada, M. del C. (2013). {\i{}Ocupaciones magdalenienses en el interior de la Pen\uc0\u237{}nsula Ib\uc0\u233{}rica: La Pe\uc0\u241{}a de Estevanvela [i.e. Estebanvela] (Ayll\uc0\u243{}n, Segovia)}. CESIC: Junta de Castilla y Le\uc0\u243{}n.\
Caron-Laviolette, E., Mevel, L., & Ollivier-Alibert, C. (2018). {\i{}Le gisement des Tarter\uc0\u234{}ts II\uc0\u8221{} \uc0\u224{} Corbeil-Essonnes (Essonne): Nouvelle approche synth\uc0\u233{}tique du mobilier lithique. L. Mevel et S. Griselin (dirs.), Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique final et M\uc0\u233{}solithique dans le bassin parisien et ses marges habitats, soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s et environnements, rapport de PCR} (Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique final et M\uc0\u233{}solithique dans le Bassin parisien et ses marges. Habitats, soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s et environnements, Projet Collectif de Recherche) [Report]. Service r\uc0\u233{}gion d\uc0\u8217{}arch\uc0\u233{}ologie d\uc0\u8217{}Ile-de-France. https://halshs.archives-ouvertes.fr/halshs-03034203\
Casab\uc0\u243{} i Bernad, J. (2012). Las industrias de la Cova dels Blaus (La Vall d\uc0\u8217{}Uix\uc0\u243{}, Castell\uc0\u243{}). Aportaci\uc0\u243{}n a la transici\uc0\u243{}n paleol\uc0\u237{}tico-epipaleol\uc0\u237{}tico en las comarcas septentrionales del Pa\uc0\u237{}s Valenciano. {\i{}MARQ: Arqueolog\uc0\u237{}a y Museos}, {\i{}5}, 19\uc0\u8211{}51.\
C\uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}rier, G. (1993). L\uc0\u8217{}abri sous roche de Pont d\uc0\u8217{}Ambon \uc0\u224{} Bourdeilles (Dordogne). I\uc0\u8239{}: Technologie de l\uc0\u8217{}outillage lithique taill\uc0\u233{}\uc0\u8239{}; II\uc0\u8239{}: Inventaire et typom\uc0\u233{}trie des pointes aziliennes. {\i{}Gallia pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}35}, 1\uc0\u8211{}98. https://doi.org/10.3406/galip.1996.2145\
C\uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}rier, G. (1998). L\uc0\u8217{}abri sous roche de Pont d\uc0\u8217{}Ambon \uc0\u224{} Bourdeilles (Dordogne, France). Perpectives synth\uc0\u233{}tiques. {\i{}Pal\uc0\u233{}o}, {\i{}10}, 233\uc0\u8211{}264. https://doi.org/10.3406/pal.1998.1138\
Chaix, L., Crotti, P., & Pignat, G. (2003). Un exemple d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}conomie m\uc0\u233{}solithique en milieu alpin: L\uc0\u8217{}abri de Ch\uc0\u226{}ble-Croix, pr\uc0\u232{}s de Vionnaz (Valais, Suisse). In Besse M., L.-I. Stahl Gretsch, & P. Curdy (Eds.), {\i{}ConstellaSion. Hommage \uc0\u224{} Alain Gallay} (pp. 59\uc0\u8211{}72). Cahiers d\uc0\u8217{}arch\uc0\u233{}ologie romande. https://archive-ouverte.unige.ch/unige:17905\
Chauvi\uc0\u232{}re, F.-X. (2008). {\i{}La grotte du Bichon: Un site pr\uc0\u233{}historique des Montagnes Neuch\uc0\u226{}teloises}. Service et mus\uc0\u233{}e cantonal d\uc0\u8217{}arch\uc0\u233{}ologie de Neuch\uc0\u226{}tel.\
Chauvin, A., Fano Mart\uc0\u237{}nez, M. A., & Teira, L. C. (2018). Tecnolog\uc0\u237{}a l\uc0\u237{}tica de los niveles magdalenienses de la cueva de El Horno (Ramales de la Victoria, Cantabria). In {\i{}Septem! Homenaje a Alberto G\uc0\u243{}mez Castanedo} (pp. 93\uc0\u8211{}104). Santander.\
Cheung, C. F., & Langlais, M. (2020). El Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico final en el sudoeste franc\uc0\u233{}s, de los Pirineos al Atl\uc0\u225{}ntico. {\i{}Las facies microlaminares del final del Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico en el Mediterr\uc0\u225{}neo ib\uc0\u233{}rico y el valle del Ebro}, 11\uc0\u8211{}37. https://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/articulo?codigo=8007846\
Ch\uc0\u322{}odnicki, M., & Kabaci\uc0\u324{}ski, J. (1997). Mirkowice-another settlement of the Hamburgian culture at the Polish Plain. {\i{}Przegl\uc0\u261{}d Archeologiczny}, {\i{}45}, 5\uc0\u8211{}23.\
Chmielewska, M. (1978). {\i{}P\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u378{}ny paleolit pradoliny warszawsko-berli\uc0\u324{}skiej} (Vol. 37). Ossolineum.\
Chollet, A., & Dujardin, V. (2005). La grotte du Bois-Ragot \uc0\u224{} Gouex, Vienne: Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien et Azilien. {\i{}M\uc0\u233{}moires de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}38}, 428.\
Christensen, M., & Valentin, B. (2004). Armatures de projectiles et outils. De la production \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}abandon. {\i{}Gallia Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}37}(1), Article 1.\
Clausen, I. (1996). Alt Duvenstedt, Kreis Rendsburg-Eckernf\uc0\u246{}rde, LA 121: Ein Ahrensburger Kulturvorkommen in aller\uc0\u248{}dzeitlichem Boden. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologische Nachrichten Aus Schleswig-Holstein}, {\i{}6}, 103\uc0\u8211{}126.\
Clausen, I., & Hartz, S. (1988). Fundpl\uc0\u228{}tze des Sp\uc0\u228{}tglazials am Sorgetal bei Alt Duvenstedt, Kreis Rendsburg-Eckernforde. {\i{}Offa}, {\i{}45}, 17\uc0\u8211{}41.\
Collcutt, S. (1986). The Later Upper Palaeolithic site of Pixie\uc0\u8217{}s Hole, Chudleigh, South Devon. {\i{}Report}.\
Collcutt, S., Currant, A. P., & Hawkes, C. J. (1981). A further report on the excavations at Sun Hole, Cheddar. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}16}(1), Article 1.\
Conneller, C. (2007). Inhabiting new landscapes: Settlement and mobility in Britain after the last glacial maximum. {\i{}Oxford Journal of Archaeology}, {\i{}26}(3), Article 3.\
Conneller, C., Ballantyne, R., French, C., & Speller, G. (2009). Investigation of a Final Palaeolithic Site at Rookery Farm, Great Wilbraham, Cambridgeshire. {\i{}Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society}, {\i{}75}, 167\uc0\u8211{}187. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0079497X00000347\
Conneller, C., & Hingham, T. (2015). The early Mesolithic colonisation of Britain: Preliminary results. In {\i{}No Stone Unturned: Papers in Honour of Roger Jacobi} (pp. 157\uc0\u8211{}166). Lithic Studies Society.\
Cooper, L. (2006). Launde, a terminal palaeolithic camp-site in the english midlands and its north european context. In {\i{}Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society} (pp. 53\uc0\u8211{}93). Prehistoric Society.\
Cooper, L. (2012). An open-air Creswellian site at Bradgate Park, Newton Linford, Leistershire. {\i{}Lithics}, {\i{}33}, Article 33.\
Cromb\uc0\u233{}, P., Deeben, J., & Van Strydonck, M. (2014). Hunting in a changing environment: The transition from the Younger Dryas to the (Pre)boreal in Belgium and the southern Netherlands. {\i{}Actes Du XXVII\uc0\u233{}me Congr\uc0\u232{}s Pr\uc0\u233{}historique de France, Transitions, Ruptures et Continuit\uc0\u233{} Durant La Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, 583\uc0\u8211{}604.\
Cromb\uc0\u233{}, P., Sergant, J., Verbrugge, A., De Graeve, A., Cherrett\uc0\u233{}, B., Mikkelsen, J., Cnudde, V., De Kock, T., Huisman, H. D., Van Os, B. J., Van Strydonck, M., & Boudin, M. (2014). A sealed flint knapping site from the Younger Dryas in the Scheldt valley (Belgium): Bridging the gap in human occupation at the Pleistocene\uc0\u8211{}Holocene transition in W Europe. {\i{}Journal of Archaeological Science}, {\i{}50}, 420\uc0\u8211{}439.\
Crotti, P., & Pignat, G. (1983). Abri m\uc0\u233{}solithique de Collombey-Vionnaz: Les premiers acquis [Text/html,application/pdf,text/html]. {\i{}Jahrbuch Der Schweizerischen Gesellschaft F\uc0\u252{}r Ur- Und Fr\uc0\u252{}hgeschichte}, {\i{}66}, 7\uc0\u8211{}16. https://doi.org/10.5169/SEALS-116595\
Cusinato, A. (2003). {\i{}Adattamenti all\uc0\u8217{}ambiente montano ed evoluzione culturale dei cacciatori-raccoglitori tra la fine del Tardiglaciale e l\uc0\u8217{}inizio dell\uc0\u8217{}Olocene: Apporto dell\uc0\u8217{}analisi tecno-tipologica dell\uc0\u8217{}industria litica del sito di Riparo La Cogola (Trento, Italia)}. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Ferrara.\
Cusinato, A., Giampaolo, D., Kompatscher, K., & Hrozny Kompatscher, M. (2004). Gli Insiemi litici della sequenza preistorica di Riparo Cogola e la problematica relativa alla transizione tra Epigravettiano e Mesolitico in area alpina. {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}40}, 125\uc0\u8211{}154.\
Cyrek, K. (1996). {\i{}Osadnictwo schy\uc0\u322{}kowopaleolityczne w Zakolu Za\uc0\u322{}\uc0\u281{}cza\uc0\u324{}skim doliny Warty}. Muzeum Archeologiczne i Etnograficzne w \uc0\u321{}odzi.\
Dalmeri, G., Duches, R., Avanzini, M., Bassetti, M., Flor, E., & Neri, S. (2013). Frequentazione delle medie quote montane durante il Dryas recente: Nuove informazioni dal sito epigravettiano di Pal\uc0\u249{} Echen (Altopiano di Folgaria, Trentino). {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}47}, 153\uc0\u8211{}181.\
Dalmeri, G., Kompatscher, K., Hrozny Kompatscher, M., Cusinato, A., Bassetti, M., & Piazzi, O. (2004). Dinamiche comportamentali degli ultimi cacciatori raccoglitori in area alpina. Il caso di studio del sito LR3 del Laghetto delle Regole (Castelfondo, Trento). {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}40}, 5\uc0\u8211{}26.\
Damu\uc0\u353{}yt\uc0\u279{}, A., Stan\uc0\u269{}ikait\uc0\u279{}, M., Girininkas, A., Rimkus, T., Daugnora, L., Skuratovi\uc0\u269{}, \uc0\u381{}., Uogintas, D., Val\uc0\u363{}nas, D., Vaikutien\uc0\u279{}, G., & \uc0\u381{}ulkus, V. (2021). New insight into the palaeoenvironmental dynamics as a background of the human history in the Nemunas River Delta region, W Lithuania, throughout the Lateglacial and Early Holocene. {\i{}Baltica}, {\i{}34}(2), Article 2.\
De Bie, M., & Caspar, J.-P. (2000). {\i{}Rekem: A Federmesser camp on the Meuse River bank}. Leuven University Press\uc0\u8239{}; Instituut voor het Archeologisch Patrimonium.\
Deeben, J. (1996). De laatpaleolithische en mesolithische sites bij Geldrop (N. Br.). Deel 3, Archeologie 7, 3-79. {\i{}Archeologie}, {\i{}7}, 3\uc0\u8211{}79.\
Deeben, J., Dijkstra, P., & Van Gisbergen, P. (2000). Some new 14C dates from sites of the Ahrensburg culture in the Southern Netherlands. {\i{}Notae Praehistoricae}, {\i{}20}, 95\uc0\u8211{}109.\
Deeben, J., & Schreurs, J. (2012). The Pope, a miracle and an Ahrensburgian windbreak in the municipality of Waalre (province of Noord-Brabant), the Netherlands. {\i{}Niekus, MJL Th., Barton, RNE, Street, M. & Terberger, Th.(Eds): A Mind Set on Flint. Studies in Honour of Dick Stapert. Groningen Archaeological Studies}, {\i{}16}, 295\uc0\u8211{}319.\
Dewez, M. (1974). Nouvelles recherches \uc0\u224{} la grotte de Remouchamps. {\i{}Bulletin de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Royale Belge d\uc0\u8217{}Anthropologie et de Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}85}, Article 85.\
Dobosi, V. T., Jungbert, B., Ringer, \uc0\u193{}., & V\uc0\u246{}r\uc0\u246{}s, I. (1988). Palaeolithic settlement in Nadap. {\i{}Folia Archaeologica (Budapest)}, {\i{}39}, 13\uc0\u8211{}40.\
Dobosi, V. T., & K\uc0\u246{}vecses-Varga, E. (1991). Upper Palaeolithic site at Esztergom-Gyurgyalag. An Archaeological Analysis. {\i{}Acta Archaeologica Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae}, {\i{}43}(3\uc0\u8211{}4), Article 3\uc0\u8211{}4.\
Donahue, R. E., & Fischer, A. (2015). A Late Glacial family at Trollesgave, Denmark. {\i{}Journal of Archaeological Science}, {\i{}54}, 313\uc0\u8211{}324. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2014.12.018\
Eggers-Kaas, T., Pedersen, J. B., Hoggard, C. S., Sauer, F., Hilgart, J., & Riede, F. (2019). A Technological and Typological Analysis of Lithic Material from Skovmosen I, Denmark. {\i{}Danish Journal of Archaeology}, {\i{}8}, 1\uc0\u8211{}18. https://doi.org/10.7146/dja.v8i0.112232\
Fano, M. A., Chauvin Grandela, A., Clemente-Conte, I., Tarri\uc0\u241{}o, A., & Teira, L. C. (2020). Magdalenian knappers in the As\uc0\u243{}n Valley: Level 2 at El Horno Cave (Ramales de la Victoria, Cantabria, Spain). {\i{}Journal of Archaeological Science: Reports}, {\i{}30}, Article 102230.\
Fano, M. \uc0\u193{}., Chauvin Grandela, A., Clemente-Conte, I., Tarri\uc0\u241{}o, A., & Teira, L. C. (2020). Magdalenian knappers in the As\uc0\u243{}n Valley: Level 2 at El Horno Cave (Ramales de la Victoria, Cantabria, Spain). {\i{}Journal of Archaeological Science: Reports}, {\i{}30}, 102230. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jasrep.2020.102230\
Fern\uc0\u225{}ndez-Tresguerres Velasco, J. A. (1980). {\i{}El Aziliense en las provincias de Asturias y Santander}. Universidad de Valladolid.\
Fischer, A. (1988). A Late Palaeolithic Flint Workshop at Egtved, East Jutland. {\i{}Journal of Danish Archaeology}, {\i{}7}, 7\uc0\u8211{}23. https://doi.org/10.1080/0108464X.1988.10589994\
Fischer, A. (1990a). A Late Palaeolithic \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}School\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{} of Flint-knapping at Trollesgave, Denmark. Results from Refitting. {\i{}Acta Archaeologica}, {\i{}60}, 33\uc0\u8211{}49.\
Fischer, A. (1990b). On Being a Pupil of a Flintknapper of 11,000 Years Ago. A Preliminary Analysis of Settlement Organization and Flint Technology Based on Conjoined Flint Artefacts from the Trollesgave Site. In E. Cziesla, S. Eickhoff, N. Arts, & D. Winter (Eds.), {\i{}The Big Puzzle: International Symposium on Refitting Stone Artefacts, Monrepos, 1987} (pp. 447\uc0\u8211{}464). Holos.\
Fischer, A. (2013). The Fensmark settlement and the almost invisible Late Palaeolithic in Danish field archaeology. {\i{}Danish Journal of Archaeology}, {\i{}1}(2), Article 2. https://doi.org/10.1080/21662282.2012.760895\
Fischer, A., Mortensen, M. F., Henriksen, P. S., Mathiassen, D. R., & Olsen, J. (2013). Dating the Trollesgave site and the Bromme culture \uc0\u8211{} chronological fix-points for the Lateglacial settlement of Southern Scandinavia. {\i{}Journal of Archaeological Science}, {\i{}40}(12), Article 12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2013.06.026\
Flor, E., Fontana, F., & Peresani, M. (2011). Contribution to the study of Sauveterrian technical systems. Technological analysis of the lithic industry from layers AF-AC1 of Romagnano Loc III rockshelter (Trento). {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}45}, 33\uc0\u8211{}59.\
Floss, H. (Ed.). (2012). {\i{}Steinartefakte vom Altpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum bis in die Neuzeit}. Kerns Verlag.\
Floss, H., & Weber, M.-J. (2012). Lithische Projektilspitzen im Sp\uc0\u228{}tglazial. In {\i{}Steinartefakte vom Altpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum bis in die Neuzeit} (pp. 509\uc0\u8211{}516). Kerns Verlag.\
Fontana, F., Guerreschi, A., Bertola, S., Cremona, M. G., Cavulli, F., Falceri, L., Gajardo, A., Montoya, C., Ndyaie, M., & Visentin, D. (2015). {\i{}Preistoria e protostoria del Veneto} (Istituto italiano di preistoria e protostoria, G. Leonardi, V. Tin\uc0\u233{}, Italy, & Universit\uc0\u224{} di Padova, Eds.). Istituto italiano di preistoria e protostoria\uc0\u8239{}; Soprintendenza per i beni archeologici del Veneto\uc0\u8239{}: Universit\uc0\u224{} degli studi di Padova.\
Froom, R., & Cook, J. (2005). {\i{}Late glacial long blade sites in the Kennet Valley: Excavations and fieldwork at Avington VI, Wawcott XII and Crown Acres}. British Museum.\
Fugl Petersen, B. (1994). Rundebakke. En senpal\uc0\u230{}olitisk boplads p\uc0\u229{} Knudshoved Odde, Sydsj\uc0\u230{}lland. {\i{}Aarb\uc0\u248{}ger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed Og Historie}, {\i{}1992}, 7\uc0\u8211{}40.\
Gali\uc0\u324{}ski, T. (1997). Materia\uc0\u322{}y do mapy osadnictwa w epoce kamienia na Pomorzu Zachodnim. {\i{}Materia\uc0\u322{}y Zachodniopomorskie}, {\i{}43}, 7\uc0\u8211{}98.\
Gali\uc0\u324{}ski, T. (1999). Stanowisko p\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u378{}nopaleolityczne w Kocierzy. {\i{}Materia\uc0\u322{}y Zachodniopomorskie}, {\i{}45}, 7\uc0\u8211{}66.\
Gali\uc0\u324{}ski, T. (2006). Osadnictwo p\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u378{}nopaleolityczne w rejonie jeziora \uc0\u346{}widwie na Pomorzu Zachodnim. {\i{}Materia\uc0\u322{}y Zachodniopomorskie Nowa Seria}, {\i{}2/3}, 43\uc0\u8211{}78.\
Gali\uc0\u324{}ski, T. (2007). Rotnowo: Stanowisko paleolityczne i mezolityczne w Dolinie Lubieszowej na Pomorzu Zachodnim. {\i{}Wydawnictwo IAE PAN}.\
Gali\uc0\u324{}ski, T. (2018). Epiahrensburgian. Osadnictwo paleolityczne w pocz\uc0\u261{}tkach holocenu na stanowisku w Bolkowie na Pomorzu Zachodnim. {\i{}Przegl\uc0\u261{}d Archeologiczny}, {\i{}66}, 5\uc0\u8211{}30. https://doi.org/10.23858/PA66.2018.001\
Gameiro, C., Aubry, T., Almeida, F., Dimuccio, L., Gabriel, S., Gaspar, R., Gomes, S., Valcarce, R. F., Figueiredo, S., Manzano, C., Marreiros, J., Oliveira, C., Santos, A. T., Silva, M. J., Tereso, J. P., & Xavier, P. (2020). Archaeology of the Pleistocene-Holocene transition in Portugal: Synthesis and prospects. {\i{}Quaternary International}, {\i{}361}, 113\uc0\u8211{}137. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.quaint.2020.03.018\
Gameiro Gon\uc0\u231{}alves, C. M. (2012). {\i{}La variabilit\uc0\u233{} r\uc0\u233{}gionale des industries lithiques de la fin du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique sup\uc0\u233{}rieur au Portugal}. Universit\uc0\u233{} de Paris I.\
Garcia-Arg\uc0\u252{}elles Andreu, P., Nadal Lorenzo, J., & Fullola, J. M. (2005). El Abrigo del Filador (Margalefde Montsant, Tarragona) y su contextualizaci\uc0\u243{}n cultural y cronol\uc0\u243{}gica en el nordeste peninsular. {\i{}Trabajos de Prehistoria}, {\i{}62}(1), Article 1.\
Garcia-Arg\uc0\u252{}elles Andreu, P., Nadal Lorenzo, J., Fullola Pericot, J. M. \super a\nosupersub{}, Bergad\uc0\u224{} Zapata, M. \super a\nosupersub{} M., Domingo Sanz, I., Allu\uc0\u233{} Mart\uc0\u237{}, E., & Lloveras Roca, L. (2014). Nuevas interpretaciones del Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico Superior Final de la Catalu\uc0\u241{}a meridional: El yacimiento de L\uc0\u8217{} Hort de la Boquera (Priorat, Tarragona). {\i{}Trabajos de Prehistoria}, {\i{}71}(2), Article 2. https://doi.org/10.3989/tp.2014.12133\
Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Arg\uc0\u252{}elles, P., Estrada, A., Nadal, J., Fullola, J. M., & Mangado, X. (2009). Les niveaux \uc0\u233{}pipal\uc0\u233{}olithiques de la Balma del Gai (Moi\uc0\u224{}, Barcelone, Catalogne). In {\i{}De M\uc0\u233{}diterran\uc0\u233{}e et d\uc0\u8217{}ailleurs: M\uc0\u233{}langes offerts \uc0\u224{} Jean Guilaine}. Archives d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}cologie pr\uc0\u233{}historique.\
Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Arg\uc0\u252{}elles, P., Nadal, J., Rom\uc0\u225{}n, D., Lloveras, Ll., & Bergad\uc0\u225{}, M. (2020). Las facies microlaminares del final del Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico superior en el sur de Catalunya. In D. Rom\uc0\u225{}n, P. Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Arg\uc0\u252{}elles, & J. M. Fullola (Eds.), {\i{}Las facies microlaminares del final del Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico en el Mediterr\uc0\u225{}neo Ib\uc0\u233{}rico y el Valle del Ebro} (pp. 117\uc0\u8211{}147). Societat Catalana d\uc0\u8217{}Arqueologia.\
Gehlen, B. (2001). Rast am Fu\uc0\u223{}e der Alpen. Die aller\uc0\u248{}dzeitliche Abristation \uc0\u8220{}Unter den Seew\uc0\u228{}nden\uc0\u8221{} bei F\uc0\u252{}ssen im Ostallg\uc0\u228{}u. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologische Berichte}, {\i{}2}(14), Article 14.\
Gerken, K. (2001). {\i{}Studien zur jung- und sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithischen sowie mesolithischen Besiedlung im Gebiet zwischen W\uc0\u252{}mme und Oste}. Kommissionsverlag Isensee Verlag.\
Gerken, K. (2011a). 371 Bierden FStNr. 30, Gde. Stadt Achim, Ldkr. Verden, ehem. Reg.Bez. L\uc0\u252{}. {\i{}Nachrichten Aus Niedersachsens Urgeschichte Beiheft}, {\i{}16}, 232\uc0\u8211{}234.\
Gerken, K. (2011b). 372 Bierden FStNr. 31, Gde. Stadt Achim, Ldkr. Verden, ehem. Reg.Bez. L\uc0\u252{}. {\i{}Nachrichten Aus Niedersachsens Urgeschichte Beiheft}, {\i{}16}, 234\uc0\u8211{}236.\
Girininkas, A., Rimkus, T., Slah, G., Daugnora, L., Stan\uc0\u269{}ikait\uc0\u279{}, M., & Zabiela, G. (2016). Lyngby Type Artefacts of Lithuania in the Context of the Stone Age in Europe: Multidisciplinary Study. {\i{}Arheolo\uc0\u291{}ija Un Etnogr\uc0\u257{}fija}, {\i{}29}, 13\uc0\u8211{}30.\
Gonz\uc0\u225{}lez Echegaray, J., & Barandiar\uc0\u225{}n Maestu, I. (1981). El Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico Superior de la Cueva del Rasca\uc0\u241{}o (Santander). {\i{}Monograf\uc0\u237{}as Del Centro de Investigaci\uc0\u243{}n y Museo de Altamira}, {\i{}3}.\
Gonz\uc0\u225{}lez Morales, M., & Straus, L. G. (2012). Terminal Magdalenian/Azilian et El Mir\uc0\u243{}n Cave (Ramales de la Victoria, Cantabria) and the R\uc0\u237{}o As\uc0\u243{}n Valley. In {\i{}Ad Orientem: Del final del Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico en el norte de Espa\uc0\u241{}a a las primeras civilizaciones del Oriente Pr\uc0\u243{}ximo: Estudios en homenaje a Juan Antonio Fern\uc0\u225{}ndez-Tresguerres Velasco} (pp. 189\uc0\u8211{}216). Universidad de Oviedo.\
Graf, R., Bouziane, H., & Butler, M. (2015). {\i{}Kontinuit\uc0\u228{}t und Diskontinuit\uc0\u228{}t: Mesolithische Silextechnik und Rohstoffversorgung am Haspelmoor im oberbayerischen Alpenvorland}. Welt und Erde Verlag.\
Gramsch, B. (2002). Friesack: Letzte J\uc0\u228{}ger und Sammler in Brandenburg. {\i{}Jahrbuch Des R\uc0\u246{}misch-Germanischen Zentralmuseums Mainz}, {\i{}47}, 51\uc0\u8211{}96.\
Grigali\uc0\u363{}nas, M. (2013). The first Palaeolithic and Mesolithic settlements in Auk\uc0\u353{}tumala, \uc0\u352{}ilut\uc0\u279{} district, the Nemunas river delta. {\i{}Archaeologia Baltica: Frontier Societies and Environmental Change in Northeast Europe}, {\i{}20}, 174\uc0\u8211{}189. https://doi.org/10.15181/ab.v20i0.815\
Gro\uc0\u223{}, D. (2017). {\i{}Welt und Umwelt fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithischer J\uc0\u228{}ger und Sammler. Mensch-Umwelt-Interaktion im Fr\uc0\u252{}hholoz\uc0\u228{}n in der nordmitteleurop\uc0\u228{}ischen Tiefebene}. Ludwig.\
Guerreschi, A. (Ed.). (1996). {\i{}Il Sito Preistorico del Riparo di Biarzo (Valle del Natisone, Friuli)}. Pubblicazioni del Museo friulano di storia naturale.\
Guilaine, J., Barbaza, M., & Martzluff, M. (Eds.). (2008). {\i{}Les excavacions a la Balma de la Margineda (1979\uc0\u8208{}1991), IV}. Ministeri d\uc0\u8217{}Afers Socials i Cultura.\
Guilaine, J., & Martzluff, M. (1995). {\i{}Les excavacions a la Balma de la Margineda (1979-1991), I-III}. Ministeri d\uc0\u8217{}Afers Socials i Cultura.\
Guti\uc0\u233{}rrez, C. (1998). Cambios en el equipamiento instrumental entre el Paleol\uc0\u237{}tico Final y el Epipaleol\uc0\u237{}tico: La cueva de La Pila. {\i{}CuPAUAM}, {\i{}25}, 87\uc0\u8211{}118.\
Hahn, J., & Scheer, A. (1983). Das Helga-Abri am Hohlenfelsen bei Schelklingen: Eine mesolithische und jungpal\uc0\u228{}olithische Schichtenfolge. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologisches Korrespondenzblatt}, {\i{}13}, 19\uc0\u8211{}28.\
Hartz, S. (1987). Neue sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithische Fundpl\uc0\u228{}tze bei Ahrenshoft, Kreis Nordfriesland. {\i{}Offa}, {\i{}44}, 5\uc0\u8211{}52.\
Hartz, S. (2012). Grundformproduktion im Nordischen Endpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum. In {\i{}Steinartefakte vom Altpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum bis in die Neuzeit} (pp. 389\uc0\u8211{}398). Kerns Verlag.\
Heinen, M. (2005). {\i{}Sarching \uc0\u8217{}83 und \uc0\u8217{}89-90: Untersuchungen zum Sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum und Fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithikum in S\uc0\u252{}dost-Deutschland}. Welt und Erde Verlag.\
Heinen, M. (2012). Grundformproduktion und -verwendung im fr\uc0\u252{}hen Mesolithikum Mitteleuropas. In {\i{}Steinartefakte vom Altpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum bis in die Neuzeit} (pp. 535\uc0\u8211{}548). Kerns Verlag.\
Hess, T. (2019). {\i{}Das Helga-Abri im Achtal. Lithische Technologie und Rohmaterialversorgung der sp\uc0\u228{}tmagdal\uc0\u233{}nienzeitlichen und fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithischen Gruppen}. Kerns Verlag.\
Holm, J. (1992). Rensdyrj\uc0\u230{}gerbopladser ved Slotseng\uc0\u8211{}og et 13.000-\uc0\u229{}rigt d\uc0\u248{}dishul med knogler og flint. {\i{}Nationalmuseets Arbejdsmark 1992}, 52\uc0\u8211{}63.\
Holm, J., & Rieck, F. (1992). Istidsj\uc0\u230{}gere ved Jelss\uc0\u248{}erne. In {\i{}Monografi i serien Skrifter fra Museumsr\uc0\u229{}det for S\uc0\u248{}nderjyllands Amt} (Vol. 5). Museumsr\uc0\u229{}det for S\uc0\u248{}nderjyllands Amt.\
Holst, D. (2014). {\i{}Subsistenz und Landschaftsnutzung im Fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithikum: Nussr\uc0\u246{}stpl\uc0\u228{}tze am Duvensee}. Verlag des R\uc0\u246{}misch-Germanischen Zentralmuseums.\
Holst, M. (2017). {\i{}Late Magdalenian lithic technological organization at Lapa do Picareiro, central Portugal.} [University of Louisville]. https://doi.org/10.18297/etd/2720\
H\uc0\u246{}neisen, M., & Peyer, S. (1994). {\i{}Schweizersbild - ein J\uc0\u228{}gerlager der Sp\uc0\u228{}teiszeit: Beitr\uc0\u228{}ge und Dokumente zur Ausgrabung vor 100 Jahren}. Kantonsarch\uc0\u228{}ologie Schaffhausen.\
Hornauer-Jahnke, T., & Noack, E. (2019). Der \uc0\u220{}bergang vom Jung- zum Sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum in S\uc0\u252{}dwestdeutschland: Der Zigeunerfels. In M. Baales & C. Pasda (Eds.), {\i{}\uc0\u8220{}All der holden H\uc0\u252{}gel ist keiner mir fremd ...\uc0\u8221{}: Festschrift zum 65. Geburtstag von Claus-Joachim Kind} (pp. 315\uc0\u8211{}336). Verlag Dr. Rudolf Habelt.\
Hyughe, D. (1985). Een vroeg-mesolithisch wooncomplex te Zonhoven-Kapelberg (Belgisch Limburg).(Un complexe d\uc0\u8217{}habitat du M\uc0\u233{}solithique ancien \uc0\u224{} Z.-K.: Limbourg belge), Limburg. {\i{}Notae Praehistoricae Tervuren}, {\i{}64}, 183\uc0\u8211{}202.\
Ikinger, E.-M. (1999). {\i{}Der endeiszeitliche R\uc0\u252{}ckenspitzen-Kreis Mitteleuropas}. LIT.\
Jacobi, R. (2004). The Late Upper Palaeolithic lithic collection from Gough\uc0\u8217{}s Cave, Cheddar, Somerset and human use of the cave. {\i{}Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society}, {\i{}70}, 1\uc0\u8211{}92.\
Jacobi, R. (2005). Some observations on the lithic artefacts from Aveline\uc0\u8217{}s Hole, Burrington Combe, North Somerset. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}23}(3), Article 3.\
Jacobi, R., & Higham, T. (2009). The early Lateglacial re-colonization of Britain: New radiocarbon evidence from Gough\uc0\u8217{}s Cave, southwest England. {\i{}Quaternary Science Reviews}, {\i{}28}(19), Article 19.\
Jacobi, R., & Higham, T. (2011). The Later Upper Palaeolithic Recolonisation of Britain: New Results from AMS Radiocarbon Dating. In {\i{}Developments in Quaternary Sciences} (Vol. 14, pp. 223\uc0\u8211{}247). Elsevier. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-444-53597-9.00012-1\
Jacobi, R. M. (2007). The Stone Age archaeology of Church Hole, Creswell Crags, Nottinghamshire. {\i{}Palaeolithic Cave Art at Creswell Crags in European Context}, 71\uc0\u8211{}111.\
Jacquier, J., & Naudinot, N. (2015). Socio economic significance of stone tools recycling, reuse and maintenance at the end of the Lateglacial in Northwestern France. {\i{}Quaternary International}, {\i{}361}, 269\uc0\u8211{}287. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.quaint.2020.03.018\
Jagher, R., Fischer, M., & Morel, P. H. (1997). Altwasser-H\uc0\u246{}hle 1: Eine sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithische Jagdstation auf 1410 m \uc0\u252{}. M. im s\uc0\u252{}d\uc0\u246{}stlichen Alpstein Al. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologie Der Schweiz}, {\i{}20}(1), Article 1.\
Jochim, M., Kind, C.-J., Kleinmann, A., Merkt, J., & Stephan, E. (2015). Eine sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithische Fundstelle am Ufer des Federsees: Bad Buchau-Kappel, Flurst\uc0\u252{}ck Gemeindebeunden. {\i{}Fundberichte Aus Baden-W\uc0\u252{}rttemberg}, {\i{}35}, 37\uc0\u8211{}134.\
Johansson, A. D. (1990). {\i{}Barmose-gruppen: Pr\uc0\u230{}boreale bopladsfund i Sydsj\uc0\u230{}lland}. Aarhus universitetsforlag.\
Johansson, A. D. (2003). {\i{}Stoksbjerg Vest: Et senpal\uc0\u230{}olitisk fundkompleks ved Porsmose, Sydsj\uc0\u230{}lland; fra Bromme - til Ahrensburgkultur i Norden}. Det Kgl. Nordiske Oldskriftselskab.\
Jones, P. (2013). {\i{}Upper Palaeolithic Sites in the Lower Courses of the Rivers Colne and Wey: Excavations at Church Lammas and Way Manor Farm (Monograph 5)}. SpoilHeap Publications.\
Kabaci\uc0\u324{}ski, J., & Sobkowiak-Tabaka, I. (2009). {\i{}P\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u378{}ny paleolit i mezolit basenu \uc0\u347{}rodkowej Warty}. Institut Archeologii i Etnologii PAN.\
Kabaci\uc0\u324{}ski, J., & Sobkowiak-Tabaka, I. (2010). Between East and West\uc0\u8211{}a new site of the Federmessergruppen in Poland. {\i{}Quart\uc0\u228{}r}, {\i{}57}, 139\uc0\u8211{}154.\
Karsten, P., & Nilsson, B. (2006). {\i{}In the wake of a woman: Stone age pioneering of North-Eastern Scania, Sweden, 10,000-5000 B.C.: the \uc0\u197{}rup settlements}. Riksantikvarie\uc0\u228{}mbetet.\
Kert\uc0\u233{}sz, R. (1996). The Mesolithic in the Great Hungarian Plain. A Survey of the Evidence. In {\i{}At the fringes of three worlds. Hunter-gatherers and farmers in the middle Tisza Valley} (pp. 5\uc0\u8211{}39). Damjanich Museum.\
Kind, C.-J. (1987). {\i{}Das Felsst\uc0\u228{}lle: Eine jungpal\uc0\u228{}olithisch-fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithische Abri-Station bei Ehingen-M\uc0\u252{}hlen, Alb-Donau-Kreis}. Konrad Theiss Verlag.\
Kl\uc0\u237{}ma, B. (1963). Epipaleolitick\uc0\u225{} kamenn\uc0\u225{} industrie z Ti\uc0\u353{}nova. {\i{}Anthropozoikum}, {\i{}1}, 127\uc0\u8211{}164.\
Kl\uc0\u237{}ma Bohuslav. (1974). {\i{}Archeologick\uc0\u253{} v\uc0\u253{}zkum plo\uc0\u353{}iny p\uc0\u345{}ed jeskyn\uc0\u237{} Pek\uc0\u225{}rnou.}\
Kobusiewicz, M. (1970). Paleolit schy\uc0\u322{}kowy w \uc0\u347{}rodkowozachodniej Wielkopolsce. {\i{}\uc0\u346{}wiatowit}, {\i{}31}, 47\uc0\u8211{}54.\
Kobusiewicz, M. (1973). Problems concerning Hamburgian culture in Central Europe. {\i{}Przegl\uc0\u261{}d Archeologiczny}, {\i{}21}, 65\uc0\u8211{}92.\
Kobusiewicz, M. (2016a). {\i{}Region Wojnowo}. Arkadia \uc0\u322{}owc\uc0\u243{}w i zbieraczy, O\uc0\u347{}rodek Studi\uc0\u243{}w Pradziejowych i \uc0\u346{}redniowiecznych IAiE PAN.\
Kobusiewicz, M. (2016b). Wojnowo, stanowisko \uc0\u8222{}a\uc0\u8221{}. In M. Kobusiewicz (Ed.), {\i{}Region Wojnowo. Arkadia \uc0\u322{}owc\uc0\u243{}w i zbieraczy} (pp. 117\uc0\u8211{}185). O\uc0\u347{}rodek Studi\uc0\u243{}w Pradziejowych i \uc0\u346{}redniowiecznych. IAiE PAN.\
Kos, O. (1971). Die Grabung auf des sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithischen Station Ti\uc0\u353{}nov in den Jahren 1966 und 1967. {\i{}Acta Musei Moraviae, Sc. Soc}, {\i{}56}, 9\uc0\u8211{}52.\
Koz\uc0\u322{}owski, S. K. (1964). Materia\uc0\u322{}y paleolityczne ze stanowiska wydmowego Tokary-R\uc0\u261{}bierz, pow. Gostynin: Przemys\uc0\u322{} tokarski. {\i{}\uc0\u346{}wiatowit}, {\i{}25}, 253\uc0\u8211{}269.\
Kr\uc0\u243{}lik, H. (2014). Chipped flint and quartzite artifacts. In R. Schild (Ed.), {\i{}A Late Magdalenian Winter Hunting Camp in Southern Poland} (pp. 173\uc0\u8211{}240). Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology of the Polish Academy of Sciences.\
Krukowski, S. (1939). Paleolit. In S. Krukowski, J. Kostrzewski, & R. Jakimowicz (Eds.), {\i{}Prehistoria Ziem Polskich}. Polska Akademia Umiej\uc0\u281{}tno\uc0\u347{}ci.\
K\uc0\u252{}htreiber, T., & Kunst, G. K. (1995). Das Sp\uc0\u228{}tglazial in der Gamssulzenh\uc0\u246{}hle im Toten Gebirge (Ober\uc0\u246{}sterreich). Artefakte, Tierreste, Fundschichtbildung. In {\i{}Die Gamssulzenh\uc0\u246{}hle im Toten Gebirge} (Vol. 9, pp. 83\uc0\u8211{}119). Mitteilungen der Kommission f\uc0\u252{}r Quart\uc0\u228{}rforschung der \uc0\u214{}sterreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften.\
Langlais, M. (2007). {\i{}Dynamiques culturelles des soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s magdal\uc0\u233{}niennes dans leurs cadres environnementaux. Enqu\uc0\u234{}te sur 7 000 ans d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}volution de leurs industries lithiques entre Rh\uc0\u244{}ne et \uc0\u200{}bre} [PhD Thesis]. Universit\uc0\u233{} de Toulouse 2 Jean Jaur\uc0\u232{}s.\
Langlais, M. (2018). Le Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien sup\uc0\u233{}rieur: Une technologie de pointes. In A. Averbouh, P. Bonnet-Jacquement, & J.-J. Cleyet-Merle (Eds.), {\i{}L\uc0\u8217{}Aquitaine \uc0\u224{} la fin des temps glaciaires\uc0\u8212{}Aquitaine at the end of the Ice Age. Les soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s de la transition du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique final au d\uc0\u233{}but du M\uc0\u233{}solithique dans l\uc0\u8217{}espace Nord aquitain. Actes de la table ronde organis\uc0\u233{}e en hommage \uc0\u224{} Guy C\uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}rier, Les Eyzies-de-Tayac, 24-26 juin 2015} (Vol. 2018, pp. 97\uc0\u8211{}108). Pal\uc0\u233{}o (num\uc0\u233{}ro sp\uc0\u233{}cial).\
Langlais, M., Delvigne, V., Gibaud, A., Jacquier, J., Perrin, T., Fernandes, P., & Delpuech, A. (2018). La s\uc0\u233{}quence arch\uc0\u233{}ostratigraphique du Cuze de Sainte-Anastasie (Cantal): Variations diachroniques et synchroniques des industries lithiques du Laborien au M\uc0\u233{}solithique. {\i{}Bulletin de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}115}(3), Article 3. https://doi.org/10.3406/bspf.2018.14921\
Langlais, M., Delvigne, V., Jacquier, J., Chevallier, A., Marquebielle, B., Rigaud, S., Detrain, L., Morala, A., & Fat Cheung, C. (2020). Variations socio-\uc0\u233{}conomiques et temporalit\uc0\u233{}s des occupations de plein air du Laborien ancien \uc0\u224{} Port-de-Penne (Penne d\uc0\u8217{}Agenais, Lot-et-Garonne). {\i{}Bulletin de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}117}(3), Article 3.\
Langlais, M., Detrain, L., Ferrie, J.-G., Boudadi-Maligne, M., Mallye, J.-B., Marquebielle, B., Rigaud, S., Bonnet-Jacquement, P., Fat Cheung, C., Naudinot, N., Valdeyron, N., & Turq, A. (2014). R\uc0\u233{}\uc0\u233{}valuation des gisements de La Borie del Rey et de Port-de-Penne: Nouvelles perspectives pour la transition Pl\uc0\u233{}istoc\uc0\u232{}ne-Holoc\uc0\u232{}ne dans le Sud-Ouest de la France. In Langlais, Mathieu, Naudinot, N., Peresani, & M. (Eds.), {\i{}Les groupes culturels de la transition Pl\uc0\u233{}istoc\uc0\u232{}ne-Holoc\uc0\u232{}ne entre Atlantique et Adriatique: Actes de la S\uc0\u233{}ance de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise, Bordeaux, 24-25 mai 2012: Vol. Se\uc0\u225{}nce 3} (pp. 83\uc0\u8211{}128). Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise. https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01836149\
Langlais, M., & Laroulandie, V. (Eds.). (2021). {\i{}La grotte-abri de Peyrazet (Creysse, Lot, France) au Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien: Originalit\uc0\u233{} fonctionnelle d\uc0\u8217{}un habitat des derniers chasseurs de rennes du Quercy}. CNRS \uc0\u201{}ditions. https://doi.org/10.4000/books.editionscnrs.55810\
Langlais, M., Laroulandie, V., Jacquier, J., Costamagno, S., Chalard, P., Mallye, J.-B., P\uc0\u233{}tillon, J.-M., Rigaud, S., Royer, A., Sitzia, L., Cochard, D., Dayet, L., Fat\uc0\u160{}Cheung, C., Le\uc0\u160{}Gall, O., Queffelec, A., & Lacrampe-Cuyaub\uc0\u232{}re, F. (2015). Le Laborien r\uc0\u233{}cent de la grotte-abri de Peyrazet (Creysse, Lot, France). Nouvelles donn\uc0\u233{}es pour la fin du Tardiglaciaire en Quercy. {\i{}Pal\uc0\u233{}o}, {\i{}26}, Article 26. https://doi.org/10.4000/paleo.2917\
Lauwerier, R. C., & Deeben, J. (2011). Burnt animal remains from Federmesser sites in the Netherlands. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologisches Korrespondenzblatt}, {\i{}41}(1), Article 1.\
Le Licon-Julien, G. (2005). L\uc0\u8217{}industrie lithique du niveau 5 du Bois-Ragot. In A. Chollet & V. Dujardin (Eds.), {\i{}La grotte du Bois-Ragot \uc0\u224{} Gouex (Vienne) Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien et Azilien. Essai sur les hommes et leur environnement} (Vol. 38, pp. 67\uc0\u8211{}89). M\uc0\u233{}moires de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise; FRANCIS.\
Leesch, D., Cattin, M.-I., M\uc0\u252{}ller, W., & Plumettaz, N. (2004). {\i{}T\uc0\u233{}moins d\uc0\u8217{}implantations magdal\uc0\u233{}niennes et aziliennes sur la rive nord du lac de Neuch\uc0\u226{}tel}. Hauterive: Service et mus\uc0\u233{}e cantonal d\uc0\u8217{}arch\uc0\u233{}ologie de Neuch\uc0\u226{}tel.\
Lemorini, C., Rossetti, P., Cusinato, A., Giampaolo, D., Hrozny Kompatscher, M., & Kompatscher, K. (2005). L\uc0\u8217{}analisi delle tracce d\uc0\u8217{}uso e l\uc0\u8217{}elaborazione spaziale: Il ricnoscimento di un\uc0\u8217{}area specializzata nel sito epigravettiano di Riparo Dalmeri, livelli 26b e 26c. {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}41}, 171\uc0\u8211{}197.\
Lengyel, G. (2008). Radiocarbon dates of the \uc0\u8220{}Gravettian Entity\uc0\u8221{} in Hungary. {\i{}Praehistoria}, {\i{}9\uc0\u8211{}10}, 241\uc0\u8211{}263.\
Lengyel, G. (2014). Backed tool technology at Esztergom-Gyurgyalag. In {\i{}Aeolian scripts\uc0\u8212{}New Ideas on the Lithic World} (Vol. 13, pp. 121\uc0\u8211{}130). Inventaria praehistorica Hungariae.\
Lengyel, G. (2016). Reassessing the middle and late upper palaeolithic in Hungary. {\i{}Acta Archaeologica Carpathica}, {\i{}51}, Article 51.\
Lengyel, G. (2018). Lithic analysis of the middle and late upper palaeolithic in Hungary. {\i{}Folia Quaternaria}, {\i{}86}, Article 86.\
Lewis, J. (1991). A Late Devension and Early Postglacial Site at Three Ways Wharf, Uxbridge, England: Interim Report. {\i{}CBA Research Report}, {\i{}77}, Article 77.\
Lewis, J. S., & Rackham, J. (2011). {\i{}Three Ways Wharf, Uxbridge: A Lateglacial and Early Holocene Hunter-Gatherer Site in the Colne Valley}. Museum of London Archaeology.\
L\uc0\u243{}pez Quintana, J. C. (Ed.). (2011). {\i{}La cueva de Santimami\uc0\u241{}e: Revisi\uc0\u243{}n y actualizaci\uc0\u243{}n (2004-2006)}. Diputaci\uc0\u243{}n Foral de Bizkaia.\
Lopez Quintana, J. C., Guenga, A., & S\uc0\u225{}enz de Buruaga, A. (2011). Din\uc0\u225{}mica evolutiva de la industria l\uc0\u237{}tica en la secuencia estratigr\uc0\u225{}fica de Santimami\uc0\u241{}e. -Campa\uc0\u241{}as de 2004 a 2006. {\i{}Excavaciones Arqueologica En Bizkaia}, {\i{}1}, 71\uc0\u8211{}110.\
Lorblanchet, M. (1985). Premiers r\uc0\u233{}sultats de nouvelles recherches \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}abri Murat (Rocamadour, Lot). {\i{}Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire Quercynoise}, {\i{}2}, 58\uc0\u8211{}94.\
Lorblanchet, M. (1996). Du Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}Azilien en Quercy. {\i{}La Vie Pr\uc0\u233{}historique}, {\i{}1996}, 282\uc0\u8211{}285.\
Madsen, B. (1983). New Evidence of Late Palaeolithic Settlement in East Jutland. {\i{}Journal of Danish Archaeology}, {\i{}2}(1), Article 1. https://doi.org/10.1080/0108464X.1983.10589889\
M\uc0\u229{}ge, B. (2019). Syltholm VII: En atypisk beliggende Ahrensburglokalitet fra Syd-Lolland. In {\i{}Gefjon: Ark\uc0\u230{}ologi og nyere tid} (Vol. 4, pp. 176\uc0\u8211{}193). Aarhus Universitetsforlag.\
Mangado, X., Bartrol\uc0\u237{}, R., Calvo, M., Fullola, J., & Petit, M. (2005). Les industries lithiques de la fin du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique de la Grotte du Parco (Al\uc0\u242{}s de Balaguer, Catalogne). In J. P. e. M. Bracco (Ed.), {\i{}D\uc0\u180{}un monde \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u180{}autre. Les syst\uc0\u232{}mes lithiques pendant le Tardiglaciaire autour de la M\uc0\u233{}diterran\uc0\u233{}e nord-occidentale} (pp. 11\uc0\u8211{}24). Actes de la table ronde internationale.\
Mangado, X., Mendiz\uc0\u225{}bal, M. \uc0\u192{}. P. i, Fullola, J. M., & Bartrol\uc0\u237{}, R. (2006). El paleol\uc0\u237{}tic superior final de la cova del Parco (Al\uc0\u242{}s de Balaguer, la Noguera). {\i{}Revista d\uc0\u8217{}arqueologia de Ponent}, 45\uc0\u8211{}62.\
Marchand, G., Arthuis, R., Philibert, S., Sellami, F., Sicard, S., Forr\uc0\u233{}, P., Lano\uc0\u235{}, S., Nauleau, J.-F., Quesnel, L., & Querr\uc0\u233{}, G. (2009). Un habitat azilien en Anjou: Les Chaloignes \uc0\u224{} Moz\uc0\u233{}-sur-Louet (Maine-et-Loire). {\i{}Gallia pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}51}(1), Article 1. https://doi.org/10.3406/galip.2009.2475\
Marchand, G., Naudinot, N., Philibert, S., & Sicard, S. (2011). Chasse aux haltes sur un site azilien de l\uc0\u8217{}Ouest de la France. {\i{}P@lethnologie}, {\i{}3}(Haltes de chasse en Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire. Quelles r\uc0\u233{}alit\uc0\u233{}s arch\uc0\u233{}ologiques\uc0\u8239{}?), Article Haltes de chasse en Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire. Quelles r\uc0\u233{}alit\uc0\u233{}s arch\uc0\u233{}ologiques\uc0\u8239{}?\
Marchand, G., Sicard, S., Forr\uc0\u233{}, P., & Nauleau, J.-F. (2008). De la pelle m\uc0\u233{}canique aux remontages lithiques: Espace habit\uc0\u233{} et techniques au Tardiglaciaire sur l\uc0\u8217{}habitat des Chaloignes (Moz\uc0\u233{}-sur-Louet, Maine-et-Loire). {\i{}Revue Arch\uc0\u233{}ologique de l\uc0\u8217{}Ouest}, {\i{}25}, Article 25. https://doi.org/10.4000/rao.1650\
Mart\uc0\u237{}nez-Moreno, J., & Mora, R. (2009). Balma de Guilany\uc0\u224{} y el Aziliense en el noroeste de la Pen\uc0\u237{}nsula Ib\uc0\u233{}rica. {\i{}Trabajos de Prehistoria}, {\i{}66}(2), Article 2.\
Martzluff, M., Martinez Moreno, J., Guilaine, J., Mora, R., & Casanova Mart\uc0\u237{}, J. (2012). Cultural transformations and climate changes in the Pyrenees of Catalonia during Late Glacial and early Holocene: Azilian and Sauveterrian Balma de la Margineda and Balma Guilany\uc0\u224{}. {\i{}Cuaternario y Geomorfolog\uc0\u237{}a: Revista de La Sociedad Espa\uc0\u241{}ola de Geomorfolog\uc0\u237{}a y Asociaci\uc0\u243{}n Espa\uc0\u241{}ola Para El Estudio Del Cuaternario}, {\i{}26}(3\uc0\u8211{}4), Article 3\uc0\u8211{}4.\
Mathiassen, T. (1937). Gudenaa-Kulturen: En mesolitisk indlandsbebyggelse i Jylland. {\i{}Aarb\uc0\u248{}ger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed Og Historie}, 1\uc0\u8211{}86.\
Mathiassen, T. (1946). En senglacial Boplads ved Bromme. {\i{}Aarb\uc0\u248{}ger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed Og Historie 1946,} 121\uc0\u8211{}197.\
Mevel, L. (2013). Les premi\uc0\u232{}res soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s aziliennes: Nouvelle lecture de la gen\uc0\u232{}se du ph\uc0\u233{}nom\uc0\u232{}ne d\uc0\u8217{}azilianisation dans les Alpes du Nord \uc0\u224{} partir des deux niveaux d\uc0\u8217{}occupation de l\uc0\u8217{}abri de La Fru (Saint-Christophe-la-Grotte, Savoie). {\i{}Bulletin de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}110}(4), Article 4.\
Mevel, L. (2014). Les premi\uc0\u232{}res soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s Aziliennes: Nouvelle lecture de la gen\uc0\u232{}se du ph\uc0\u233{}nom\uc0\u232{}ne d\uc0\u8217{}azilianisation dans les Alpes du Nord \uc0\u224{} partir des deux niveaux d\uc0\u8217{}occupations Azilien ancien de l\uc0\u8217{}abri de La Fru (Saint-Christophe-la-Grotte, Savoie. {\i{}Bulletin de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}110}(4), Article 4.\
Mevel, L. (2017). {\i{}Des soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s en mouvement. \uc0\u201{}volution des soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s magdal\uc0\u233{}niennes et aziliennes des alpes du nord fran\uc0\u231{}aises}. \uc0\u201{}ditions du CTHS.\
Mevel, L., & Bodu, P. (2018). Le closeau reloaded. Actualit\uc0\u233{}s et perspectives autour des occupations aziliennes du closeau (rueil-malmaison, hauts-de-seine). In J.-J. Cleyet-Merle, P. Bonnet-Jacquement, & A. Averbouh (Eds.), {\i{}L\uc0\u8217{}aquitaine \uc0\u224{} la fin des temps glaciaires\uc0\u8212{}Aquitaine at the end of the ice age. Les soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s de la transition du pal\uc0\u233{}olithique final au d\uc0\u233{}but du m\uc0\u233{}solithique dans l\uc0\u8217{}espace nord aquitain. Actes de la table ronde organis\uc0\u233{}e en hommage \uc0\u224{} guy c\uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}rier, les eyzies-de-tayac, 24-26 juin 2015: Vol. Pal\uc0\u233{}o n\uc0\u176{} sp\uc0\u233{}cial 2018} (pp. 203\uc0\u8211{}214). https://halshs.archives-ouvertes.fr/halshs-03023790\
Mevel, L., Fornage-Bontemps, S., & Bereiziat, G. (2013). {\i{}Au carrefour des influences culturelles? Les industries lithiques de la fin du Tardiglaciaire entre Alpes du nord et Jura, 11 500-9 500 CalBC} (S\uc0\u233{}ancs de La Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise No. 3; Les Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s de l\uc0\u8217{}Aller\uc0\u248{}d et Du Dryas R\uc0\u233{}cent Entre Atlantique et M\uc0\u233{}dit\uc0\u233{}ran\uc0\u233{}e, Issue 3, pp. 45\uc0\u8211{}81).\
Mevel, L., Pion, G., & Fornage-Bontemps, S. (2014). Changements techniques et g\uc0\u233{}ographie culturelle \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}extr\uc0\u234{}me fin du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique dans les Alpes du nord fran\uc0\u231{}aises. Les stratigraphies de l\uc0\u8217{}abri de La Fru (Savoie) revisit\uc0\u233{}es. In {\i{}Transitions, ruptures et continuit\uc0\u233{} durant la Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire} (Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise, pp. 527\uc0\u8211{}546).\
Mills, W. G. (2022). {\i{}Late Glacial Geography of The Channel River Network. Southeastern England and its Central Position in the British Peninsula and Ties with Northwestern Europe}. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Oxford.\
Milner, N., Conneller, C., & Taylor, B. (2018a). Star Carr Volume I. In {\i{}White Rose University Press}. White Rose University Press. https://doi.org/10.22599/book1\
Milner, N., Conneller, C., & Taylor, B. (Eds.). (2018b). {\i{}Star Carr Volume II}. White Rose University Press. https://doi.org/10.22599/book2\
M\uc0\u248{}bjerg, T. (2005). Dv\uc0\u230{}rgebakke\uc0\u8212{}En boplads ved B\uc0\u248{}lling S\uc0\u248{} med fund fra ahrensburg- og maglemosekultur. {\i{}Midtjyske Fort\uc0\u230{}llinger 2005}, 12\uc0\u8211{}16.\
Montoya, C. (2004). {\i{}Les traditions techniques lithiques \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}Epigravettien. Analyses de s\uc0\u233{}ries du Tardiglaciaire entre Alpes et M\uc0\u233{}diterran\uc0\u233{}e}. Universit\uc0\u233{} de Provence, Th\uc0\u232{}se de doctorat de Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire.\
Montoya, C. (2008). Apport de l\uc0\u8217{}analyse  technique  \uc0\u224{}  la  compr\uc0\u233{}hension  de  l\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}volution  des  groupes humains \uc0\u233{}pigravettiens d\uc0\u8217{}Italie Nord Orientale: La production lithique de l\uc0\u8217{}US 15a-65 du Riparo Dalmeri. {\i{}Preistoria Alpina}, {\i{}43}, 191\uc0\u8211{}208.\
Montoya, C., & Peresani, M. (2005). Nouveaux \uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}ments de diachronie dans l\uc0\u8217{}Epigravettien r\uc0\u233{}cent des Pr\uc0\u233{}alpes de V\uc0\u233{}n\uc0\u233{}tie. In {\i{}Les syst\uc0\u232{}mes techniques lithiques pendant le Tardiglaciaire autour de la M\uc0\u233{}diterran\uc0\u233{}e Nord-occidentale} (pp. 123\uc0\u8211{}138). M\uc0\u233{}moires de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Pr\uc0\u233{}historique Fran\uc0\u231{}aise.\
Morales, M. R. G., & Casado, Y. D. (1992). Excavaciones en los abrigos de la Pe\uc0\u241{}a del Perro (Santo\uc0\u241{}a, Cantabria). {\i{}Veleia: Revista de prehistoria, historia antigua, arqueolog\uc0\u237{}a y filolog\uc0\u237{}a cl\uc0\u225{}sicas}, {\i{}8-9 (1991-1992)}, Article 8-9 (1991-1992).\
Moulin, B., Onfray, M., & Mevel, L. (in press). (R\uc0\u233{})occupations d\uc0\u8217{}un abri-sous-roche \uc0\u224{} la fin du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique r\uc0\u233{}cent. Dynamique s\uc0\u233{}dimentaire et microstratigraphie de la s\uc0\u233{}quence arch\uc0\u233{}ologique de l\uc0\u8217{}abri des Douattes (Musi\uc0\u232{}ges, Haute-Savoie). {\i{}P@lethnologie}.\
Mugaj, J. (2019). Stanowisko kultury hamburskiej w Kr\uc0\u261{}goli, woj. Wielkopolskie: Rekonstrukcja technologiii obr\uc0\u243{}bki krzemienia w oparciu o analiz\uc0\u281{} sk\uc0\u322{}adanek krzemiennych. {\i{}Fontes Archaeologici Posnanienses}, {\i{}54}, 89\uc0\u8211{}103.\
Mu\uc0\u241{}os Salvatierra, M., & Berganza, E. (1997). {\i{}El yacimiento de la cueva de Urratxa III\uc0\u8239{}: (Orozko, Bizkaia)}. Unversidad de Deusto.\
Naudinot, N. (2010a). {\i{}Dynamiques techno-\uc0\u233{}conomiques et de peuplement au Tardiglaciaire dans le grand\uc0\u8209{}ouest de la France}. Universit\uc0\u233{} Rennes 1.\
Naudinot, N. (2010b). {\i{}Dynamiques techno-\uc0\u233{}conomiques et de peuplement au Tardiglaciaire dans le grand\uc0\u8209{}ouest de la France} [Th\uc0\u232{}se de doctorat, Universit\uc0\u233{} Rennes 1]. http://www.theses.fr/2010REN1S092\
Naudinot, N. (2013). La fin du Tardiglaciaire dans le Grand-Ouest de la France. {\i{}Bulletin de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise}, {\i{}110}(2), Article 2. https://doi.org/10.3406/bspf.2013.14259\
Naudinot, N., Bourdier, C., Laforge, M., Paris, C., Bellot-Gurlet, L., Beyries, S., Thery-Parisot, I., & Le Goffic, M. (2017). Divergence in the evolution of Paleolithic symbolic and technological systems: The shining bull and engraved tablets of Rocher de l\uc0\u8217{}Imp\uc0\u233{}ratrice. {\i{}PLoS ONE}, {\i{}12}(9), Article 9. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0173037\
Naudinot, N., & Jacquier, J. (2014). Socio-economic organization of Final Paleolithic Societies: New perspectives from an aggregation site in Western France. {\i{}Journal of Anthropological Archaeology}, {\i{}35}, 177\uc0\u8211{}189. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaa.2014.05.004\
Naudinot, N., Le Goffic, M., Bellot-Gurlet, L., Beyries, S., Bourdier, C., Jacquier, J., Laforge, M., Paris, C., & Sorin, S. (2018). Du nouveau \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}Ouest: R\uc0\u233{}sultats pr\uc0\u233{}liminaires sur l\uc0\u8217{}Azilien ancien de l\uc0\u8217{}abri sous roche du Rocher de l\uc0\u8217{}Imp\uc0\u233{}ratrice (Plougastel-Daoulas, Finist\uc0\u232{}re, France). In A. Averbouh, P. Bonnet-Jacquement, & J.-J. Cleyet-Merle (Eds.), {\i{}L\uc0\u8217{}Aquitaine \uc0\u224{} la fin des temps glaciaires: Les soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{}s de la transition du Pal\uc0\u233{}olithique final au d\uc0\u233{}but du M\uc0\u233{}solithique dans l\uc0\u8217{}espace Nord aquitain. Actes de la table organis\uc0\u233{}e en hommage \uc0\u224{} Guy C\uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u233{}rier, Les Eyzies-de-Tayac, 24-26 juin 2015} (pp. 181\uc0\u8211{}191). Mus\uc0\u233{}e national de Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire (no sp\uc0\u233{}cial Pal\uc0\u233{}o). https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-02110687\
Neruda, P., Nerudov\uc0\u225{}, Z., & \uc0\u268{}ul\uc0\u237{}kov\uc0\u225{}, V. (2009). Lo\uc0\u353{}tice I - Koz\uc0\u237{} vrch. Magdal\uc0\u233{}niensk\uc0\u225{} stanice v Horn\uc0\u237{}m Pomorav\uc0\u237{} (LO\uc0\u352{}TICE I - KOZ\uc0\u205{} VRCH. A MAGDALENIAN SITE IN NORTHERN MORAVIA). {\i{}Acta Musei Moraviae, Sci. Soc.}, {\i{}94}, 39\uc0\u8211{}64.\
Nielsen, E. H. (1991). {\i{}Gampelen-J\uc0\u228{}net 3: Eine mesolithische Siedlungsstelle im westlichen Seeland}. Staatlicher Lehrmittelverlag.\
Nutz, B. (2006). {\i{}Die steinzeitlichen Fundstellen von Kamegg und M\uc0\u252{}hlfeld in Nieder\uc0\u246{}sterreich. Mit einem Verzeichnis sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithischer und mesolithischer Fundstellen in \uc0\u214{}sterreich.} Unpublished M.A. Thesis.\
Olive, M. (1988). {\i{}Une habitation magdal\uc0\u233{}nienne d\uc0\u8217{}Etiolles: L\uc0\u8217{}unit\uc0\u233{} P 15}. M\uc0\u233{}moire de la Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise.\
Olive, M., Pigeot, N., & Bignon-Lau, O. (2019). Un campement magdal\uc0\u233{}nien \uc0\u224{} \uc0\u201{}tiolles (Essonne): Des activit\uc0\u233{}s \uc0\u224{} la microsociologie d\uc0\u8217{}un habitat. {\i{}Gallia Pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}59}, Article 59. https://doi.org/10.4000/galliap.1492\
Ostrauskas, T. (2002). Kabeliai 2 Stone Age Site. {\i{}Archaeologia Baltica}, {\i{}5}, 51\uc0\u8211{}82.\
Otte, M. (1994). {\i{}Le Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien du Trou de Chaleux (Hulsonniaux-Belgique)} (Vol. 60). ERAUL.\
Otte, M. (1997). {\i{}La Grotte Du Bois Laiterie: Recolonisation Magdal\uc0\u233{}nienne de la Belgique} (Vol. 80). ERAUL.\
Paw\uc0\u322{}owska, M. (2003). Schy\uc0\u322{}kowopaleolityczna pracownia wi\uc0\u243{}r\uc0\u243{}w na stanowisku 2 w Zagaciu, gm. Czernich\uc0\u243{}w. {\i{}Materia\uc0\u322{}y Archeologiczne}, {\i{}34}, 19\uc0\u8211{}52.\
Perdaen, Y., Cromb\uc0\u233{}, P., & Sergant, J. (2004). Federmessergroepen in de Scheldepolders (Oost-Vlaanderen, Belgi\uc0\u235{}): Technologische variabiliteit binnen een vast schema. {\i{}Notae Praehistoricae}, {\i{}24}, 81\uc0\u8211{}88.\
Peresani, M., De Curtis, O., Duches, R., Gurioli, F., Romandini, M., & Sala, B. (2008). Grotta del Clusantin, un sito inusuale nel sistema insediativo epigravettiano delle Alpi italiane. In {\i{}Il Tardiglaciale in Italia \uc0\u8211{} Lavori in corso} (pp. 67\uc0\u8211{}79). Archaeopress.\
Petersen, P. V. (2006). White flint and hilltops-Late Palaeolithic finds in Southern Denmark. In K. M\uc0\u248{}ller Hansen & K. Buck Pedersen (Eds.), {\i{}Across the Western Baltic Proceedings of the archaeological conference \uc0\u8222{}The Prehistory and Early Medieval Period in the Western Baltic\uc0\u8221{} in Vordingborg, South Zealand, Denmark, Denmark, March 27th \uc0\u8211{} 29th 2003} (pp. 57\uc0\u8211{}74). Sydsj\uc0\u230{}llands Museums Publikationer.\
Petersen, P. V., & Johansen, L. (1991). S\uc0\u248{}lbjerg I\uc0\u8212{}An Ahrensburgian Site on a Reindeer Migration Route through Eastern Denmark. {\i{}Journal of Danish Archaeology}, {\i{}10}, 20\uc0\u8211{}37. https://doi.org/10.1080/0108464X.1991.10590051\
Piedrabuena-Fern\uc0\u225{}ndez, S. (2018). Aproximaci\uc0\u243{}n a la industria l\uc0\u237{}tica del yacimiento prehist\uc0\u243{}rico de Socuevas (Pobes, \uc0\u193{}lava). {\i{}CKQ: Estudios de Cuaternario}, {\i{}8}, 121\uc0\u8211{}146.\
Pigeot, N. (1987). {\i{}Magdal\uc0\u233{}niens d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u201{}tiolles. \uc0\u201{}conomie de d\uc0\u233{}bitage et organisation sociale (l\uc0\u8217{}unit\uc0\u233{} d\uc0\u8217{}habitation U5)}. \uc0\u201{}ditions du Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.\
Pigeot, N. (2004). Les derniers Magdal\uc0\u233{}niens d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u201{}tiolles: Perspectives culturelles et pal\uc0\u233{}ohistoriques (l\uc0\u8217{}unit\uc0\u233{} d\uc0\u8217{}habitation Q31). {\i{}Gallia pr\uc0\u233{}histoire}, {\i{}Suppl\uc0\u233{}ment 37}(1), Article 1. https://www.persee.fr/issue/galip_0072-0100_2004_sup_37_1\
Pion, G., & Mevel, L. (2005). Nouvelles recherches sur les occupations tardiglaciaires dans les Alpes du nord fran\uc0\u231{}aises: Premiers r\uc0\u233{}sultats des fouilles de l\uc0\u8217{}abri des Douattes (Musi\uc0\u232{}ges, Haute-Savoie). {\i{}Nouvelles recherches sur les occupations tardiglaciaires dans les Alpes du nord fran\uc0\u231{}aises\uc0\u8239{}: premiers r\uc0\u233{}sultats des fouilles de l\uc0\u8217{}abri des Douattes (Musi\uc0\u232{}ges, Haute-Savoie)}, {\i{}35}, 63\uc0\u8211{}68.\
Prze\uc0\u378{}dziecki, M. (2014). {\i{}Krzemieniarstwo schy\uc0\u322{}kowopaleolitycznej kultury wo\uc0\u322{}kusza\uc0\u324{}skiej w \uc0\u347{}wietle analizy materia\uc0\u322{}\uc0\u243{}w ze stanowiska 3 w Wo\uc0\u322{}kuszu, gm. Lipsk n/Biebrz\uc0\u261{}, pow. Augustowski, woj. Podlaskie} [Wydzia\uc0\u322{} Historyczny]. Uniwersytet Warszawski.\
Prze\uc0\u378{}dziecki, M., Migal, W., Krajcarz, M., & Py\uc0\u380{}ewicz, K. (2012). Obozowisko Kultury Magdale\uc0\u324{}skiej Na Stanowisku 95 \uc0\u8222{}Ma\uc0\u322{}y Gawroniec\uc0\u8221{} W \uc0\u262{}mielowie, Pow. Ostrowiecki, Woj. \uc0\u346{}wi\uc0\u281{}tokrzyskie. {\i{}\uc0\u346{}wiatowit}, {\i{}7}, 225\uc0\u8211{}234.\
Quesada L\uc0\u243{}pez, J. M., Garc\uc0\u237{}a S\uc0\u225{}nchez, E., & Ad\uc0\u225{}n \uc0\u193{}lvarez, G. (1999). El Aziliense de Cueva Oscura de Ania (Las Regueras, Asturias): Primera aproximaci\uc0\u243{}n y su contexto en la cuenca del Nal\uc0\u243{}n. {\i{}Espacio Tiempo y Forma. Serie I, Prehistoria y Arqueolog\uc0\u237{}a}, {\i{}12}, Article 12. https://doi.org/10.5944/etfi.12.1999.4686\
Rees, C., & Nash, G. (2017). Recent Archaeological Investigations at Kendrick\uc0\u8217{}s Upper Cave, Great Orme, Llandudno. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}27}(2), Article 2.\
Rensink, E. (2010). {\i{}Eyserheide. A Magdalenian open-air site in the loess area of the Netherlands and its archaeological context.} Analecta praehistorica Leidensia 42.\
Rettenbacher, C. (1998). {\i{}Steinzeitliche Silexartefakte aus dem Abri von Elsbethen: Eine pal\uc0\u228{}o-mesolithische Jagd-Station im Salzachtal}.\
Reynier, M. (2005). {\i{}Early Mesolithic Britain: Origins, Development and Directions}. Archaeopress.\
Richards, M. P., Jacobi, R., Cook, J., Pettitt, P. B., & Stringer, C. B. (2005). Isotope evidence for the intensive use of marine foods by Late Upper Palaeolithic humans. {\i{}Journal of Human Evolution}, {\i{}49}(3), Article 3.\
Riede, F. (2012). A possible Brommian shaft-smoother from the site of M\uc0\u248{}lleh\uc0\u248{}je, north-western Denmark. {\i{}Mesolithic Miscellany}, {\i{}22}, 10\uc0\u8211{}18.\
Riede, F., Weber, M.-J., Westen, B., Gregersen, K. M., Lundqvist Eriksen, K. K., Murray, A. S., Henriksen, P. S., & Mortensen, M. F. (2019). Krogsb\uc0\u248{}lle, a new Hamburgian site in eastern Denmark. In B. V. Eriksen, E. Rensink, & S. Harris (Eds.), {\i{}The Final Palaeolithic of Northern Eurasia: Proceedings of the Amersfoort, Schleswig and Burgos UISPP Commission Meetings} (pp. 11\uc0\u8211{}31). Ludwig.\
Rimkus, T. (2019). In search of Lithuania coastal Mesolithic: Review of current data and the aims of an ongoing research project. {\i{}Fornv\uc0\u228{}nnen}, {\i{}114}(1), Article 1.\
Rimkus, T., & Girininkas, A. (2021). An Attempt to link a lithic complex with the late palaeolithic Rangifer tarandus antler axe from the Parup\uc0\u279{} site in northern Lithuania. {\i{}Archaeologia Baltica}, {\i{}28}, 118\uc0\u8211{}131. https://doi.org/10.15181/ab.v28i0.2285\
Roblin-Jouve, A., Olive, M., Rodriguez, P., Bignon-Lau, O., Chauss\uc0\u233{}, C., Dumarcay, G., Lejeune, Y., Leroyer, C., Thi\uc0\u233{}bault, S., & Wattez, J. (2016). Les limons fluviatiles du site magdal\uc0\u233{}nien d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u201{}tiolles (Essone, France). Bilan des recherches sur le contexte physique et naturel des occupations humaines \uc0\u224{} \uc0\u201{}tiolles. {\i{}Revue Arch\uc0\u233{}ologique d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u206{}le-de-France}, {\i{}9}, Article 9.\
Roman, D. (2011). Nuevos datos para la transici\uc0\u243{}n Pleistoceno Holoceno: El abrigo del Cingle de L\uc0\u8217{}aigua (Xert, Baix Maestrat, Pa\uc0\u237{}s Valenciano). {\i{}Zephyrvs}, 209\uc0\u8211{}218.\
Rom\uc0\u225{}n, D., Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Arg\uc0\u252{}elles, M. P., & Fullola, J. M. a. (2021). La aparici\uc0\u243{}n de los elementos geom\uc0\u233{}tricos: El Abrigo de Filador y su contextualizaci\uc0\u243{}n en el Mediterr\uc0\u225{}neo Ib\uc0\u233{}rico y el Valle del Ebro. In M. Bea, R. Domingo, C. Mazo, L. Montes, & J. M. Rodan\uc0\u233{}s (Eds.), {\i{}De la mano de la Prehistoria. Homenaje a Pilar Utrilla Miranda Monograf\uc0\u237{}as Arqueol\uc0\u243{}gicas} (pp. 341\uc0\u8211{}360). Prensas de la Universidad de Zaragoza.\
Roman Monroig, D. (2012). La producci\uc0\u243{}n l\uc0\u237{}tica en el Abrigo de la Roureda (Vilafranca, Els Ports, Castell\uc0\u243{}n). {\i{}SAGVNTVM. Papeles Del Laboratorio de Arqueolog\uc0\u237{}a de Valencia}, {\i{}43}(0), Article 0. https://doi.org/10.7203/SAGVNTVM.43.331\
Rozoy, J. G. (1978). {\i{}Les derniers chasseurs: L\uc0\u8217{}Epipal\uc0\u233{}olithique en France et en Belgique , essai de synth\uc0\u232{}se}. \uc0\u201{}dition Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} Arch\uc0\u233{}ologique Champenoise.\
Rust, A. (1937). {\i{}Das altsteinzeitliche Rentierj\uc0\u228{}gerlager Meiendorf}. Wachholtz.\
Rust, A. (1958). {\i{}Die jungpal\uc0\u228{}olithischen Zeltanlagen von Ahrensburg}. Wachholtz.\
Salomonsson, B. (1983). Decouverte d\uc0\u8217{}un habilitation du Tardi-Glaciere a Segebro, Scanie, Suede. {\i{}Acta Archaeologica}, {\i{}35}, 1\uc0\u8211{}28.\
Sarasin, F. (1913). Die H\uc0\u246{}hle in der Ermitage am Schlossfelsen von Birseck. Ausgrabungsbericht. In F. Sarasin (Ed.), {\i{}Die steinzeitlichen Stationen des Birstales zwischen Basel und Delsberg (Pal\uc0\u228{}ontologischer Teil von Hans Georg Stehlin unter Mitwirkung von Theophil Studer)} (Vol. 2, pp. 84\uc0\u8211{}156). Basel/Genf/Lyon.\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (1998). The Early Mesolithic site of Pasieniai. {\i{}PACT}, {\i{}54}, 157\uc0\u8211{}169.\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2002). Hamburgo kult\uc0\u363{}ros radiniai Lietuvoje. {\i{}Lietuvos archeologija}, {\i{}23}, 163\uc0\u8211{}186.\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2004). Brom\uc0\u279{}s (Liungbiu) kult\uc0\u363{}ra Lietuvoje. {\i{}Lietuvos archeologija}, {\i{}25}, 17\uc0\u8211{}44.\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2005a). Lietuvos v\uc0\u279{}lyvojo paleolito kult\uc0\u363{}r\uc0\u371{} periodizacija. {\i{}Archaeologia Lituana}, {\i{}6}, 49\uc0\u8211{}82.\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2005b). Svidr\uc0\u371{} kult\uc0\u363{}ra Lietuvoje. {\i{}Lietuvos archeologija}, {\i{}29}, 133\uc0\u8211{}170.\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2012a). The Investigation of the Sudota archaeological complex. In {\i{}Archaeological investigations in independent Lithuania (1990-2010)} (pp. 27\uc0\u8211{}34). Lietuvos Archeologijos Draugija. https://www.lituanistika.lt/content/50620\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2012b). Titnago kasimo ir apdirbimo dirbtuv\uc0\u279{}s prie Titno e\uc0\u382{}ero. {\i{}Archaeologia Lituana}, {\i{}13}, Article 0. https://doi.org/10.15388/ArchLit.2012.0.1190\
\uc0\u352{}atavi\uc0\u269{}ius, E. (2016). The First Palaeolithic inhabitants and the Mesolithic in Lithuanian territory. In {\i{}A hundred years of archaeological discoveries in Lithuania / edited by Gintautas Zabiela, Zenonas Baubonis, Egl\uc0\u279{} Marcinkevi\uc0\u269{}i\uc0\u363{}t\uc0\u279{}} (pp. 8\uc0\u8211{}39). Lietuvos archeologijos draugija. https://www.lituanistika.lt/content/65381\
Saville, A., & Ballin, T. B. (2010). Upper Palaeolithic evidence from Kilmelfort Cave, Argyll: A re-evaluation of the lithic assemblage. {\i{}Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland}, {\i{}139}, 9\uc0\u8211{}45.\
Sawicki, L. (1960). Stanowisko otwarte madle\uc0\u324{}skie Antoni\uc0\u243{}w Ma\uc0\u322{}y. {\i{}Biuletyn Pa\uc0\u324{}stwowego Instytutu Geologicznego}, {\i{}150}(9), Article 9.\
Schild, R. (1975). P\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u378{}ny paleolit. In W. Chmielewski & W. Hensel (Eds.), {\i{}Prahistoria ziem polskich. Paleolit i mezolit} (pp. 159\uc0\u8211{}338). Ossolineum.\
Schild, R. (2014a). {\i{}A Late Magdalenian winter hunting camp in southern Poland}. Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology of the Polish Academy of Sciences.\
Schild, R. (2014b). Introduction. In R. Schild (Ed.), {\i{}A Late Magdalenian Winter Hunting Camp in Southern Poland} (pp. 17\uc0\u8211{}28). Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology of the Polish Academy of Sciences.\
Schild, R., Kr\uc0\u243{}lik, H., Tomaszewski, A. J., & Ciepielewska, E. (2011). {\i{}Rydno: A Stone Age Red Ochre Quarry and Ocioeconomic Center: A Century of Research}. Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology of the Polish Academy of Sciences.\
Schild, R., Ma\uc0\u324{}ka, D., Kr\uc0\u243{}lik, H., & Marczak, M. (2014). Archaeological materials. In R. Schild (Ed.), {\i{}Ca\uc0\u322{}owanie. A Final Palaeolithic and Early Mesolithic Site on an Island in the Ancient Vistula Channel} (pp. 59\uc0\u8211{}253). Instytut Archeologii i Etnologii PAN.\
Sch\uc0\u246{}nwei\uc0\u223{}, W. (1974). Fr\uc0\u228{}nkisches Epipal\uc0\u228{}olithikum: Die Atzenhofer Gruppe. {\i{}Bonner Hefte Zur Vorgeschichte}, {\i{}8}, 17\uc0\u8211{}108.\
Sch\uc0\u246{}nwei\uc0\u223{}, W. (1982). Die sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithische Fundlandschaft der Bibertm\uc0\u252{}ndungbei Iltenberg. {\i{}Abhandlungen Der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft N\uc0\u252{}rnberg}, {\i{}39}, 47\uc0\u8211{}58.\
Schwabedissen, H. (1954). {\i{}Die Federmesser-Gruppen des nordwesteurop\uc0\u228{}ischen Flachlandes: Zur Ausbreitung des Sp\uc0\u228{}t-Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien}. Wachholtz Verlag.\
Schwarz, G. (2007). {\i{}Die sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithische\uc0\u8212{}Mesolithische Fundstelle Kamegg in Nieder\uc0\u246{}sterreich}. Unpublished M.A. Thesis.\
Sedlmeier, J. (2015). {\i{}Die letzten Wildbeuter der Eiszeit: Neue Forschungen zum Sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum im Kanton Basel-Landschaft}. Schwabe Verlag.\
Siemaszko, J. (2000). The Szczebra 14 site. A key to understanding the Palaeolithic in the North-eastern part of Europe or another mystery? {\i{}Lietuvos Archeologija}, {\i{}19}, 251\uc0\u8211{}266.\
Sieveking, G. de G. (1971). The Kendrick\uc0\u8217{}s Cave Mandible. {\i{}The British Museum Quarterly}, {\i{}35}(1/4), Article 1/4.\
Snijders, F. (2000). {\i{}Bivak aan de Beerze. Laat-paleolithische en mesolithische vindplaatsen te Westelbeers. Deel 1: Westelbeeers-Zuidwest}. Archeologische vereniging Werkgroep t\uc0\u8217{}Oude Slot.\
Sobkowiak-Tabaka, I. (2011). {\i{}Spo\uc0\u322{}eczno\uc0\u347{}ci p\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u378{}nego paleolitu w dorzeczu Odry}. IAE PAN.\
Sobotta, J. (1991). Fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithische Wohnpl\uc0\u228{}tze aus Draved Moor, D\uc0\u228{}nemark. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologisches Korrespondenzblatt}, {\i{}21}(4), Article 4.\
Soj\uc0\u225{}k, M., & Hunka, J. (2003). Paleolitick\uc0\u233{} s\uc0\u237{}dlisko a neskorostredovek\uc0\u225{} pe\uc0\u328{}azokazeck\uc0\u225{} diel\uc0\u328{}a v jaskyni Such\uc0\u225{} diera v Spi\uc0\u353{}skej Teplici. {\i{}Slovensk\uc0\u225{} Archeol\uc0\u243{}gia}, {\i{}51}(2), Article 2.\
S\uc0\u248{}rensen, M. (2006). Teknologiske traditioner i Maglemosekulturen. En diakron analyse af Maglemosekulturens fl\uc0\u230{}kkeindustri. In {\i{}Stenalderstudier. Tidligt mesolitiske j\uc0\u230{}gere og samlere i Sydskandinavien} (pp. 19\uc0\u8211{}75). Jysk Ark\uc0\u230{}ologisk Selskab.\
S\uc0\u248{}rensen, M., & Sternke, F. (2004). N\uc0\u248{}rreg\uc0\u229{}rd VI - Late Glacial Hunters in Transition. In T. Terberger & B. V. Eriksen (Eds.), {\i{}Hunters in a Changing World: Environment and Archaeology of the Pleistocene\uc0\u8212{}Holocene Transition (ca. 11000-9000 B.C.) in Northern Central Europe; Workshop of the U.I.S.P.P.-Commission XXXII at Greifswald in September 2002} (pp. 85\uc0\u8211{}112). Verlag Marie Leidorf GmbH, Rahden.\
Soto, A. (2014). {\i{}Producci\uc0\u243{}n y gesti\uc0\u243{}n de la industria l\uc0\u237{}tica de Atxoste (\uc0\u193{}lava):una aproximaci\uc0\u243{}n a las sociedades epipaleol\uc0\u237{}ticas y mesol\uc0\u237{}ticas del Alto Ebro} [Thesis doctoral]. University of the Basque Country.\
Soto, A., Alday, A., Mangado, X., & Montes, L. (2016). Epipaleol\uc0\u237{}tico y Mesol\uc0\u237{}tico en la vertiente sur de los Pirineos desde la perspectiva de la industria l\uc0\u237{}tica. {\i{}Munibe}, {\i{}67}, 295\uc0\u8211{}312.\
Soto, A., Tarri\uc0\u241{}o Vinagre, A., & Alday Ruiz, A. (2015). Evolution of procurement and management strategies of lithic raw materials in the Mesolithic of Atxoste (Alava, Spain). In {\i{}Muge 150th: The 150th Anniversary of the Discovery of Mesolithic Shellmiddens} (pp. 61\uc0\u8211{}73). Cambridge Scholars Publishing.\
Soto, L., Montes, L., Domingo, R., & Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Sim\uc0\u243{}n, L. M. (2019). Nuevos datos sobre la transici\uc0\u243{}n Pleistoceno/Holoceno en el noreste de la oen\uc0\u237{}nsula ib\uc0\u233{}rica: El Sauveterriense de Pe\uc0\u241{}a 14 (Biel, Zaragoza). {\i{}Trabajos de Prehistoria}, {\i{}76}(1), Article 1.\
Stefa\uc0\u324{}ski, D. (2017). Tanged Point Technocomplex\uc0\u8211{}Swiderian, but what else? New findings from Krak\uc0\u243{}w region, southern Poland. {\i{}Quart\uc0\u228{}r}, {\i{}64}, 241\uc0\u8211{}264.\
Stevens, R. E., Jacobi, R. M., & Higham, T. (2010). Reassessing the diet of Upper Palaeolithic humans from Gough\uc0\u8217{}s Cave and Sun Hole, Cheddar Gorge, Somerset, UK. {\i{}Journal of Archaeological Science}, {\i{}37}(1), Article 1.\
Straus, L. G., & Clark, G. (1986). La Riera cave: Stone age hunter-gatherer adaptations in Northern Spain. {\i{}Anthropological Research Papers}, {\i{}36}, 1\uc0\u8211{}499.\
Svoboda, J. (1991). Neue Erkenntnisse zur Pek\uc0\u225{}rna-H\uc0\u246{}hle im M\uc0\u228{}hrischen Karst. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologisches Korrespondenzblatt}, {\i{}21}(4), Article 4.\
Svoboda, J. (2000). The Pek\uc0\u225{}rna Cave. Magdalenian stratigraphy, environment, and the termination of the loess formation in the Moravian Karst. {\i{}Anthropozoikum}, {\i{}24}, Article 24. https://www.academia.edu/20546462/The_Pek%C3%A1rna_Cave_Magdalenian_stratigraphy_environment_and_the_termination_of_the_loess_formation_in_the_Moravian_Karst_Anthropozoikum_24_2000_61_79\
Szymczak, K. (1991). Kultura perstu\uc0\u324{}ska w paleolicie schy\uc0\u322{}kowym Ni\uc0\u380{}u \uc0\u346{}rodkowoeuropejskiego. {\i{}\uc0\u346{}wiatowit}, {\i{}37}, 143\uc0\u8211{}188.\
Szymczak, K. (1992). {\i{}P\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u322{}nocno-wschodnia prowincja surowcowa kultury \uc0\u347{}widerskiej}. Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu \uc0\u321{}\uc0\u243{}dzkiego.\
Szymczak, K. (1995). {\i{}Epoka kamienia Polski p\uc0\u243{}\uc0\u322{}nocno-wschodniej na tle \uc0\u347{}rodkowoeuropejskim}. Wydawnictwa Fundacji \uc0\u8220{}Historia pro futuro.\uc0\u8221{}\
Taute, W. (1971). {\i{}Untersuchungen zum Mesolithikum und zum Sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum im s\uc0\u252{}dlichen Mitteleuropa}. Habilitationsschrift Universit\uc0\u228{}t T\uc0\u252{}bingen.\
Taute, W. (1972). Die sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithisch-fr\uc0\u252{}hmesolithische Schichtenfolge im Zigeunerfels bei Sigmaringen. {\i{}Arch\uc0\u228{}ologische Informationen}, {\i{}1}, 29\uc0\u8211{}40.\
Tratman, E. K. (1955). Second report on the excavations at Sun Hole Cheddar: The Pleistocene levels. {\i{}Proceedings of the University of Bristol Spelaeological Society}, {\i{}7}(2), Article 2.\
Utrilla, P., & Laborda, R. L. (2018). La cueva de Chaves (Bastar\uc0\u225{}s, Huesca): 15 000 a\uc0\u241{}os de ocupaci\uc0\u243{}n prehist\uc0\u243{}rica. {\i{}Trabajos de Prehistoria}, {\i{}75}(2), Article 2.\
Utrilla, P., & Mazo, C. (2014). {\i{}La Pe\uc0\u241{}a de las Forcas (Graus, Huesca): Un asentamiento estrat\uc0\u233{}gico en la confluencia del Esera y el Is\uc0\u225{}bena}. Departamento de Ciencias de la Antig\uc0\u252{}edad, Universidad de Zaragoza.\
Utrilla, P., Mazo, C., & Domingo Mart\uc0\u237{}nez, R. (2014). Los abrigos de Forcas en la din\uc0\u225{}mica cultural del Valle del Ebro. La ocupaci\uc0\u243{}n de Forcas I: del Magdaleniense Antiguo al Mesol\uc0\u237{}tico Microlaminar. {\i{}Prehistoria}, {\i{}46}, 345\uc0\u8211{}408.\
Vadillo Consesa, M. (2018). {\i{}Sistemes de producci\uc0\u243{}n l\uc0\u237{}tica en el tr\uc0\u224{}nsit Plistoc\uc0\u233{}-Holoc\uc0\u232{}. Estudi de la se\uc0\u252{}encia arqueol\uc0\u243{}gica de Coves da Santa Maira (Castell de Castells, Alacant) i la seua contextualitzaci\uc0\u243{} mediterr\uc0\u224{}nia}. University of Valencia.\
Vadillo Consesa, M., & Aura Tortosa, J. E. (2019). Lithic production in the centre and south of the Iberian Mediterranean region (Spain) throughout the Pleistocene-Holocene transition (14.5-10.5 ky cal BP). {\i{}Quaternary International}, {\i{}564}, 83\uc0\u8211{}93.\
Valde-Nowak, P., & Kraszewska, A. (2015). Nowa Bia\uc0\u322{}a and Sromowce Ni\uc0\u380{}ne\uc0\u8212{}Late Palaeolithic Central Carpathian sites with Arched-backed Points. {\i{}Acta Archaeologica Carpathica}, {\i{}49}, Article 49.\
Valde-Nowak, P., & Kraszewska, A. (2020). Two late palaeolithic arch-backed points varieties in the Northern Carpathians. In {\i{}From the Atlantic to Beyond the Bug River. Finding and Defining the Federmesser-Gruppen / Azilian} (Vol. 1\uc0\u8211{}40, pp. 105\uc0\u8211{}118). Verlag des RGZM.\
Valde-Nowak, P., Soj\uc0\u225{}k, M., & Was, M. (2007). On the problems of late Paleolithic settlement in northern Slovakia. Example of Stara Lubovna site. {\i{}Slovensk\uc0\u225{} Archeol\uc0\u243{}gia}, {\i{}1}(55), Article 55.\
Valentin, B., & Hantai, A. (2005). Transformations de l\uc0\u8217{}industrie lithique pendant l\uc0\u8217{}Azilien. \uc0\u201{}tude des niveaux 3 et 4 du Bois-Ragot. In A. Chollet & V. Dujardin (Eds.), {\i{}La grotte du Bois-Ragot \uc0\u224{} Gouex (Vienne) Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien et Azilien. Essai sur les hommes et leur environnement} (Vol. 38, pp. 89\uc0\u8211{}182). Soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} pr\uc0\u233{}historique fran\uc0\u231{}aise.\
Valoch, K. (1957). Jeskyn\uc0\u283{} \uc0\u353{}ipka a \uc0\u268{}ertova d\uc0\u237{}ra u \uc0\u352{}tramberku. {\i{}Acta Musei Moraviae, Sci. Soc.}, {\i{}42}, Article 42.\
Valoch, K. (1988). {\i{}Die Erforschung der Kuulna-H\uc0\u246{}hle 1961\uc0\u8211{}1976.} Moravsk\uc0\u233{} zemsk\uc0\u233{} muzeum.\
Valoch, K., & Neruda, P. (2005). K chronologii moravsk\uc0\u233{}ho magdal\uc0\u233{}nienu On the chronology of the Moravian Magdalenian. {\i{}Archeologicke Rozhledy}, {\i{}57}, 459\uc0\u8211{}476.\
Van Noten, F., Cahen, D., Keeley, L. H., & Moeyersons, J. (1978). {\i{}Les chasseurs de Meer}. De Tempel.\
Vaquero, M. (2004). {\i{}Els darrers ca\uc0\u231{}adores-recol\uc0\u183{}lectors de la conca de Barber\uc0\u224{}: El jaciment del Mol\uc0\u237{} del Salt (Vimbod\uc0\u237{})} (No. 5). {\i{}Museu-Arxiu de Montblanc i Comarca, Montblanc}(5), Article 5.\
Veil, S., Breest, K., Grootes, P., Nadeau, M.-J., & H\uc0\u252{}ls, M. (2015). A 14 000-year-old amber elk and the origins of northern European art. {\i{}Antiquity}, {\i{}86}, 660\uc0\u8211{}673.\
Vencl, S. (1978). Voletiny\uc0\u8211{}nov\uc0\u225{} pozdn\uc0\u283{} paleolitick\uc0\u225{} industrie z \uc0\u268{}ech. {\i{}Pam\uc0\u225{}tky Archeologick\uc0\u233{}}, {\i{}69}, 1\uc0\u8211{}44.\
Vencl, S. (1988). Pozdne paleolitick\uc0\u233{} osidleni v Plzni. {\i{}Archeologick\uc0\u233{} Rozhledy}, {\i{}45}(1), Article 1.\
Vencl, S. (1995). Hostim. Magdalenian in Bohemia. Pam\uc0\u225{}tky archeologick\uc0\u233{} \uc0\u8211{} Supplementum 4. {\i{}Anthropologie (1962-)}, {\i{}33}(1/2), Article 1/2.\
Vencl, Sl. (1970). Das Sp\uc0\u228{}tpal\uc0\u228{}olithikum in B\uc0\u246{}hmen. {\i{}Anthropologie (1962-)}, {\i{}8}(1), Article 1.\
Vermeersch, P. M. (2013). {\i{}An Ahrensburgian site at Zonhoven-Molenheide (Belgium)}. Archaeopress.\
Vermeersch, P., Symens, N., Vynckier, P., Gijselings, G., & Lauwers, R. (1987). Orp, site Magdal\uc0\u233{}nien de plein air (comm. De Orp-Jauche). {\i{}Archaeologica Belgica}, {\i{}1987}, 7\uc0\u8211{}56.\
V\uc0\u233{}rtes, L. (1962). Die Ausgrabungen in Szeksz\uc0\u225{}rd-Pal\uc0\u225{}nk und die arch\uc0\u228{}ologischen Funde. {\i{}\uc0\u346{}wiatowit: Rocznik Po\uc0\u347{}wi\uc0\u281{}cony Archeologii Przeddziejowej i Badaniom Pierwotnej Kultury Polskiej i S\\lowia\uc0\u324{}skiej}, {\i{}24}, 199\uc0\u8211{}202.\
Villaverde, V., & Rom\uc0\u225{}n, D. (2005). Los arpones del Magdaleniense superior de la Cova de les Cendres y su valoraci\uc0\u243{}n en el contexto del Magdaleniense mediterr\uc0\u225{}neo. {\i{}Munibe}, {\i{}57}, 207\uc0\u8211{}225.\
Ward, T., Saville, A., & Martingell, H. (n.d.). Flint finds point to Scotland\uc0\u8217{}s first people. {\i{}British Archaeology}, {\i{}2009 (May-June)}, 7.\
Weber, M.-J. (2012). {\i{}From technology to tradition: Re-evaluating the Hamburgian-Magdalenian relationship}. Wachholtz.\
Weber, M.-J., Clausen, I., Housley, R. A., Miller, C. E., Riede, F., & Usinger, H. (2010). New information on the Havelte Group site Ahrensh\uc0\u246{}ft LA 58 D (Nordfriesland, Germany)\uc0\u8212{}Preliminary results of the 2008 fieldwork. {\i{}Quart\uc0\u228{}r}, {\i{}57}, 7\uc0\u8211{}24.\
Windisch, M. (2014). {\i{}Die Steinger\uc0\u228{}te aus der Halbh\uc0\u246{}hle von Oberraun in Unken. Bachelorarbeit}. Unpublished B.A. Thesis.\
Winkler, K. (2019). {\i{}Ahrensburgien und Swiderien im mittleren Oderraum. Technologische und typologische Untersuchungen an Silexartefakten der J\uc0\u252{}ngeren Dryaszeit}. Wachholtz.\
Wi\uc0\u347{}niewski, T. (2015a). {\i{}Klementowice. A Magdalenian site in eastern Poland}. Institute of Archaeology, Maria Curie-Sk\uc0\u322{}odowska University of Lublin.\
Wi\uc0\u347{}niewski, T. (2015b). Magdalenian settlement in Klementowice. In T. Wi\uc0\u347{}niewski (Ed.), {\i{}Klementowice. A Magdalenian site in eastern} (pp. 7\uc0\u8211{}66). Institute of Archaeology. Maria Curie-Sk\uc0\u322{}odowska University in Lublin.\
Wymer, J. J., Jacobi, R. M., & Rose, J. (1975). Late Devensian and Early Flandrian Barbed Points from Sproughton, Suffolk. {\i{}Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society}, {\i{}41}, 235\uc0\u8211{}241. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0079497X00011014\
Wyss, R. (1952). F\uc0\u252{}rsteiner-Seeberg, eine sp\uc0\u228{}tjungpal\uc0\u228{}olithische Freilandstation [Text/html,application/pdf,text/html]. {\i{}Jahrbuch der Schweizerischen Gesellschaft f\uc0\u252{}r Urgeschichte}, {\i{}42}, 133\uc0\u8211{}154. https://doi.org/10.5169/SEALS-114109\
}